course_code	title	description	dept_code	credits	pre_reqs	core_area	inquiry_area	recommendation
AHUM 191X	FLAC/French and German			0				
AHUM 200X	CLAC Language Pedagogy			0				
ALST 199	Entangled Intimacies: Introduction to Africana and Latin American Studies	"An introductory course which provides a curricular entry point into productively entangled geographies that offer pathways around old geo curricular divisions. Through studies of on-going settler colonial structures and intersecting projects of liberation, the course connects Africa, Atlantic worlds, the Américas, and Abya-Yala."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 201	Africa	"An introduction to the interdisciplinary study of Africa and to the African Studies major and minor at Hudson. The goal is to introduce students to a major world area with which many, even highly educated, Westerners are unfamiliar. Africa is the original home of the human species, and the intellectual contributions of the continent and its people to the concept of a common humanity are tremendous, including agricultural and industrial technologies, artistic and aesthetic principles, and religious and philosophical ideas. Due to early patterns of globalization and European colonization in the western hemisphere, the Atlantic slave trade, and ultimately colonialism on the continent itself, Africa was configured as “the Dark Continent” in European discourses of the nineteenth century."	ENGL	3				
ALST 202	Introduction to African American Studies	"An introductory course to the field of African American studies. It is interdisciplinary and utilizes materials drawn from the fields of history, sociology, literature, social psychology, and political science. The course seeks to acquaint students with the cutting-edge work in this area and gives students a broad understanding of the place and contributions that African Americans have made to society in the United States."	ENGL	3				
ALST 203	The Caribbean	"An interdisciplinary course that introduces students to the field of Caribbean Studies. It uses literature, film, and the music of the region to explore the historical, societal, cultural, political, and economic development of the Caribbean. It also explores gender issues in the region. It is one of the required courses for students who seek to participate in the West Indies Study Group."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 204	Performing Bolivian Music	"Learn to play Andean music, focusing primarily on flute and panpipe genres from the indigenous Aymara regions of Bolivia. Students will also learn about the performance contexts in which these traditions are produced. Conducted bilingually in English and Spanish. However, no prior experience is required in music or in the Spanish language. Students are encouraged to take the course for the experience of immersion in musical and Spanish language practices. Students will work towards a public performance of this music during the Bolivian musicians' residency. Additionally, students who have existing musical skills may choose to learn other Bolivian genres that utilize European-based instruments."	ENGL	2				
ALST 211E	"Cuba: Hist, Cult & Life Ext St"	"A three-week immersion extended study offered in Havana, Cuba. Students will expand their knowledge of the history, geography, film, music, literature, identity, Cuban revolution and current events previously studied in Core Cuba, while also gaining a new perspective on individual research projects. Cuban scholars and specialists will enhance topical discussions and lead excursions. Other features of the course include a film screening(s), live performances, and walking explorations of the varied cultural landscapes of Havana and two colonial cities."	ENGL	2	CORE 198C Two semesters of college-level Spanish.			
ALST 212	Politics of Race & Ethnicity	"Examines the political dynamics of race in American society, focusing primarily on the experience of blacks as a socio-political group and to a lesser degree on that of other racial and ethnic minorities. The overriding theme is how race has influenced American politics and, conversely, how certain political phenomena have shaped the development of race. The specific topics around which the course is organized include the following: the most enduring and predominant racial issue - racial inequality; competing explanations for the origins and continuance of racial inequality; leadership approaches and ideologies for redressing the race problem; mass political strategies for dealing with the problem; majority attitudes and opinions regarding racial issues (including racial inequality); and the comparative experience of non-black minorities. These topics, individually and collectively, represent the essence of racial politics."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 217	Corridors of Black Girlhood	"An introduction to the emergent field of Black Girlhood Studies. An interdisciplinary journey, it engages theories, methods, and analytical approaches that recognize the power and potential of Black girlhood. Through interpretive and pragmatic inquiry of Black girls’ lives, students will develop and enact an intersectional approach to interrogate the ways power, systems of oppression, and culture mediate girlhood. To expose discrepancies in popularized narratives of Black girls and women in the United States, the course is organized around the tenet of celebration and other foundational concepts and scholars within the field. Drawing on theories and concepts derived from Black feminist thought, budding scholars will approach Black girlhood as a political category of identity and symbol of agency. Working within and beyond hip-hop feminist and womanist frameworks, learning will involve critical thinking and embodiment of theories and practices as produced by Black girls, artists, and scholars. With attention to knowledge and creativity engendered amidst legacies of anti-Black racism and racialized femininity, Corridors of Black Girlhood reveals the contributions of Black girls, girlhood, and Black feminist thought to the expansion of theory, praxis, and power analyses."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 218	"Seeing, Feeling, Believing: Black Religious Thought through Visual Art and Performance"	"What can visual art and performance tell us about Black religion? Students explore this question by considering how historical and contemporary Black artists use mediums such as photography, painting, tactile installation, embodied movement, and sound to consider religious ideas. Students bring these creative works into conversation with scholarship in Black religious thought concerning a range of themes, including conjure/ancestral connection, Black liberation, ecstatic feeling, otherwise worlds, hope/pessimism, and the human. As a result, students gain an understanding of the profound ways that questions of religion and life meaning deeply inform and animate Black artistic and aesthetic cultural expression."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ALST 219	Healing Arts: The Idea of Africa in Medicine and Museums	"Explores the relationship between African arts, museums, and medicinal and public health systems. Students examine the role played by museums in crafting knowledge and perceptions of African arts through the use of and display of certain objects/subjects and the intersections of those understandings with concepts (and interpretations) of health. The over-arching goal of the course is for students to become critical readers of 'Africa', and the 'Idea' of Africa, in museums and in medicine, and through the use of material culture and ethnographic collections."	ENGL	3				
ALST 220	The Black Diaspora: Africans at Home and Abroad	"Focuses on the African presence in the Americas. It examines the responses of Africans and their descendants to the experiences of enslavement, racism, colonialism, and imperialism from the fifteenth century to the present; and analyzes the impact of the African presence on western ""civilization."" It also explores the evolution of an African identity, particularly, an identification with the destiny of the African continent among African descendants in the Diaspora."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements		
ALST 220X	Black Diaspora/FLAC-Akan/Twi		ENGL	0				
ALST 225	Jamaica:Colony to Independence	"Surveys the history of Jamaica from 1655, when the British took possession of the island, through political independence in 1962, to the present. Examines the growth of Jamaica to become Britain's most prosperous colony during the 18th century based on an export sugar-based, slave-driven economy; the social the political consequences of its dependence on slavery; the economic effects of slave abolition and free trade during the 19th century; social and political developments after emancipation; the growth of black nationalism and decolonization; and post/neo-colonial developments."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 227	Civil Rights and Civil Fights: The History of the Long Civil Rights Movement in the United States	"Designed as a historical and interdisciplinary course that provides a deep and thorough examination of the “long civil rights movement” among African Americans and their allies during the 20th and early 21st century United States, with attention to the structure of racial inequality, movement philosophies and strategies, white allies and opponents, relationships to other freedom movements, and the movement’s historical legacies with the Black Lives Matter Movement and #SayHerName."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 228	Caribbean-Conquest/Colonialism	"Surveys Caribbean history from European conquest and colonization to political independence. It introduces students to the salient features of the region's history from indigenous societies and their destruction by European invaders; through the rise of plantations and African slavery, the struggles for freedom, post-slavery social and economic developments; to the rise of nationalism leading to political self-determination, and the new American imperialism."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 230	Intro Latin American Studies	"An introduction to the development of Latin America's diverse and distinctive cultural heritage and to its contemporary institutions and civilization. The study of pre-Columbian and New World cultures of Spanish and Portuguese America focuses on the interactions of Indian, European, and African cultures and the complexities of what is known as Latin American culture. The course, though not a historical survey, examines the historical origins of contemporary social, cultural, economic, and political issues in Latin America, and in those parts of the world that have been affected by significant numbers of Latin American immigrants. The approach is broadly multidisciplinary, reflecting various perspectives and materials."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements		
ALST 235	"Conf, Peace &Soc Just Ltn Amer"	"Many people in Latin America today live under a type of 'violent peace.' Although states are not at war with one another formally, the means of coercion, destruction, and militarization have not receded despite several ""waves of democratization,"" and in fact, these have become normalized or concealed in everyday relations. This interdisciplinary course centers on a comparative, thematic, and chronological study of Latin America and the Caribbean to understand the meanings and forms of violence, methods and challenges of promoting justice, and attempts to build peace. Developing complex and multidimensional approaches to peace and conflict issues in this particular region will help to build knowledge that may be applicable more broadly."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements		
ALST 237	"Ghana:Hist, Culture & Politics"	"Students consider how Ghana has been an active participant in international commerce, politics, and culture, whether as a global source of gold and cocoa, a producer of kente cloth, or pan-Africanism, diasporic culture and politics, or as the “Black Star” state of Africa. Ghana continues to have enormous symbolic and pragmatic value in global relations relative to its size and place, but the course asks how has Ghana grappled with becoming a nation with many histories—indigenous, Islamic, European, migrant African, and Asian—and the different meanings those histories hold in a republic hoping to balance local, continental, and global concerns. The course also asks how indigenous communities, such as the former empire of Asante and its leader the Asantehene, has come to exercise enormous influence on the world stage, at times more than the president of Ghana."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 242	"Religions of Resistance: Gender, Sexuality and Performance in the Caribbean"	"Studies African-derived religions and practices in the Caribbean, particularly the ways in which they constitute anticolonial and decolonial perspectives and practices. By exploring texts drawn from cultural studies, religious studies, literature, theatre and anthropology, students will develop an analytical framework through which to examine concepts such as syncretism and hybridity, ritual and bodily performance, and the construction of gender and sexuality. Key concerns in this course are the empowerment of women and people of diverse gender and sexual identities in religious contexts, black identity in the Caribbean and beyond, and the creation of new spaces for marginalized voices to be heard."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ALST 244	African American Religious Experience	"This historical, theological, and contextual course examines the African American religious experience, including slavery in America, the struggle for freedom and identify, the development of the Black Church, Black Muslims, the Civil Rights movement, the emergence of Black and Womanist theologies, and other expressions of African American spirituality. Course readings include writings of such historical and contemporary authors as Frederick Douglass, W. E. Du B. DuBois, Martin Luther King, Jr. Malcom X, James Cone, Albert Raboteau, Jacquelyn Grant, and Lewis Baldwin."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ALST 245	Dirty South	"The Dirty South offers an interdisciplinary exploration of the rich history, cultural and aesthetic traditions, as well as the environmental and architectural landscapes that make up Black southern life in the United States. The course title, which is inspired by the Black southern vernacular phrase for the region, marks the course’s focus on the particularly diverse mixture of cross-cultural, diasporic traditions, beliefs and practices that define the south, from Virginia to Texas and all points in between. Course materials include readings that chronicle histories of slavery, Jim Crow, mass incarnation and gentrification, personal narratives that provide insights into historical and contemporary political realities and social movement organizing, and music, film, and visual art that lend an affective window into the sensory, spatial, and creative dimensions of the Black south. In addition to considering the profound social fabric of Black southern life and its larger impact on the United States, students also explore how this culture and region present a generative challenge to conventional notions that posit identity and geographical boundaries as clear and distinct categories."	ENGL	3				
ALST 250	Representations of Africa	"Critique the ways in which ""Africa"" has been constructed as an object of Western knowledge. The course interrogates how Africa and Africans have been portrayed to outside audiences historically and contemporarily, as well as the socio-political ramifications of such portrayals. Drawing on key texts from the social sciences, the humanities as well as the creative arts, the course explores specific depictions of Africa and Africans. It examines African self-representations alongside representations that focus on Africa as a site of difference or 'othering'."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 273	Contemp African Amer Drama	"A study of the dramatization of African American experiences and perspectives, examined through close readings, viewings, and informed discussion of works by current contemporary black American playwrights, scholars, and drama critics."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ALST 281	Slavery and the Slave Trade in Africa	"Slavery and the slave trade are global phenomena with historical roots in the earliest civilizations. The course examines the long history of slavery and the slave trade in African societies, exploring the role that slavery played in African economic, political, and social life, as well as how the export of human beings as slaves transformed African societies. The course also considers how slaveholders and slaves shaped early African societies, the logic and consequences of African participation in the Atlantic slave trade, the aftermath of abolition in 20th-century colonial Africa, and how coercive forms of labor control have persisted into the 21st century."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 282	The Making of Modern Africa	Surveys the history of Africa from the 1880s to the contemporary period. Major themes will include: the imperial scramble and partition of Africa; African resistances; colonial rule in Africa; independence and problems of independence; socio-economic developments in independent Africa; ethnic conflicts; crises and contemporary issues.	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 284	Decolonization in Africa	"Surveys the history of the growth of anti-colonial nationalism, the end of colonial rule, and post-independence Africa to the contemporary period. It focuses on the comparative analysis of the winning of independence from French, British, Italian, Portuguese, and Belgian colonization. Major themes include African responses to colonial rule, wind of change, independence and problems of independence, pan-African movement, socio-economic developments, cold war, colonial legacies, political systems, and contemporary issues."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 290	Model African Union	"The Model African Union is an annual national student simulation of the workings of a large multilateral organization, the African Union. Composed of 55 member states, the African Union was constituted in 2000 as the successor to the Organization of African Unity (OAU). Its objectives are to achieve continental integration, similar to that of the European Union, in balance with recognizing the national sovereignty of its member states. The Model African Union is in session for four days in late February, hosted by Howard University in Washington D.C., and students from more than 30 colleges and universities around the country participate. The on-campus portion of the course meets weekly for the five weeks prior to the trip and one week after, for debriefing. Students are assigned to specific country delegations and committees, research and prepare position papers, draft resolutions, debate and vote on action items, and generally take on the roles of African diplomats. The trip includes a visit to the embassy of the country each delegation is representing. May be taken more than once, with different country and committee assignments each year."	ENGL	2				
ALST 309	Lat Amer: Landscapes of Devel	"Explores the development experience of Latin America through examination of pressing environmental, economic, political, and social issues that currently face the region as a whole and play out differently across the region. The focus is guided by a critical reading of development theory, paying particular attention to Latin American theorizations and empirical experiences, and concern for the subjects, places, and scales that have been excluded from the presumed benefits of development. Mindful that Latin America's development experience is historically embedded, students examine the transformation of Latin American societies and environments through legacies of conquest and colonialism, processes of globalization and neo-liberalization, dynamics of rural and urban change, changes in gender and race relations, and transformations of political and civil society dynamics. These issues are grounded in case studies drawn from Central America, the Caribbean, and Andean countries, and Southern Cone, and Brazil. The course's point of entry is contemporary environmental crises and the role of natural and human resources in shaping the development experience of the region."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 312	"Gender, Race and Punishment: Toward an Inclusive History of the American Carceral State"	"An interdisciplinary course exploring the complex history of the mass incarceration of African American girls and women within the U.S. penal system. Students investigate the complexities of the U.S. carceral state while unearthing the harsh realities that Black girls and women endured as they faced a system that criminalized their race, gender, and social status. Students further investigate the historical nature of African American girls and women's lived experiences, both within and right outside of a criminal justice system that, in many ways, has worked to criminalized their very being. Coursework is meant to illustrate that African American girls and women have not had one singular experience within the criminal justice system while illustrating that their experiences differed over time and across lines of age, class, regional, organizational, and sexual orientation. Students consider multiple issues that African American girls and women have faced while confined, both physical and mentally, by the United States penal system including their struggle for freedom, the exploitation of their labor, physical and mental abuse within the penal system, their personal practices of self-salvation, family life and love relationships, and their ongoing efforts to not only denounce the prison industrial complex while pushing for the abolition of carceral state."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 313	Funky Stories: Memoirs and Black Popular Music	Provides a curricular connection to an important trend in the discipline of Africana Studies-- an expanding growth in music and Sound studies and their interconnections with social politics.	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ALST 320	African Amer Women's History	"An interdisciplinary exploration of the complex history and experiences of African American women’s lives beginning with their enslavement in the United States through the present day. Students investigate the complexities of the social constructions of race, gender, and class as each has shaped African American women’s experiences, racial identity, and other relations of power. Coursework illustrates that African American women did not have one singular experience but their experiences differed over time and across lines of age, class, regional, organizational, and sexual orientation. Students consider issues that African American women have faced in the United States including their fight for freedom, the exploitation of their labor, their practices of leisure, institution building, social and political activism, family life and love relationships, and their subsequent re-enslavement through the prison industrial complex."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 321	Black Communities	"Uses a social scientific approach to examine the circumstances and dynamics characterizing black communities in the contemporary United States. Key areas of inquiry include the operation of major social institutions shaping community life, social class divisions, health and housing prospects, and the ways that the intersections of racial/ethnic identity, class, and gender shape the experiences of community members."	ENGL	3	ALST 202 or SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 324	Black Music: U.S. Inquiry	"An analysis of U.S. intellectual geographies through Black musical traditions. This course will situate Black musical traditions as a lens to consider: socio political, spatial, economic, philosophical, transnational, gendered, and queer meanings embodied within U.S. contexts. This course is an inquiry into how intellectual tensions, manifested in Black musical practices, provide a simultaneously contrapuntal, resonant, and dissonant lens to examine alternative and marginalized meanings of Black experience within the U.S. context."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 327	Dictator/Democr in Caribbean	"Examines the political development of the Caribbean from European occupation and colonization to the present. The imperial and societal foundations of authoritarianism in the Caribbean are studied, as are the popular democratic impulses arising especially since the end of slavery and culminating in self-governing ""democratic"" political regimes."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 330	Race and Crime	"This course uses a social scientific approach to examine the relationship between race and crime in the contemporary United States, with a particular emphasis on the African American experience. Key areas of inquiry include the nature of mass incarceration, urban crime, the politics of the new law and order regime, the relationship between punitiveness and prejudice, racial profiling, the community-level impacts of mass incarceration, the legitimacy crisis facing the criminal justice system, media depictions of race and crime, and racial stereotyping."	ENGL	3	(SOCI 201 or SOAN 204) or (SOCI 250 or SOAN 210) or ALST 202	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 331	The Sexual Politics of Hip-Hop	"For more than 30, years Hip Hop has been one of the most significant cultural identifiers for youth in the United States. Hip Hop may be one of the largest cultural movements the world has ever experienced – a cultural movement that has influenced everything from the music to which we listen, the clothes with which we adorn ourselves and to, the cars that we drive, the food that we eat and the words we speak. However, Hip Hop culture is more than the music, the fashion and the style that is popular today. It transcends the commercialized products sold to mainstream U.S. America and the around globe. How so? Why did Hip Hop emerge? What does mainstream Hip Hop today represent? How do women fit into this narrative? Through a close examination of critical feminist and queer theory, this course explores the cultural and political implications of hip hop music and culture – specifically its impact on Black sexual politics and gender performance."	ENGL	3				
ALST 334	Public Health in Africa	"A critical analysis of the cultural, social, political, and economic processes related to the field of global public health in Africa. Taking an anthropological approach, students will be able to identify the main actors, institutions, practices, and forms of knowledge production at work in contemporary public health interventions as they have arisen in African contexts. The course places current interventions in historical perspective, gauging their benefits as well as any unintended consequences."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 351	"Medicine, Health and Healing in Africa"	"Designed as a reading seminar, students will be introduced to major themes and the ways in which scholars approach them. Students will read and discuss several recent books of history and anthropology on varied topics relevant to medicine, health and healing in Africa. These range from historical forms of healing to training African medical students to the history of malaria to the complexity of pharmacological discoveries and patenting to psychiatry and decolonization."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 354	Introduction to French Literature: The Francophone World	"Offers an overview of various bodies of literature written in French outside of France, focusing on five main geographical areas that historically constituted the French empire: the Caribbean, North Africa, West and Central Africa, Asia, and North America. Full texts as well as excerpts from a variety of genres are studied in the context of the history and geography of those regions. Through the exploration of key literary texts, particular attention is given to the effects of colonialism on language, identity, and artistic creation."	ENGL	3	At least four years of secondary-school French or FREN 202	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ALST 365	Andean Lives	"While the Andes region may evoke quaint images often seen in tourism advertisements, a focus on the people living in this region reflects globally interconnected dynamics. The course engages with diverse authors who write about the Andes: as a place steeped in highland indigenous traditions; as the place of the Inca Empire; as a place of rural communities in which collective action can take priority over individual interest; as the original source of the coca leaf that has ritual significance through the region and contested political significance in the international sphere; as the birthplace of a Maoist guerrilla movement in the last gasp of the Cold War; and as the place where social movements have challenged global economic systems and brought an indigenous president to power. Through details about the lives of those who reside in the Andes, this course brings together anthropological and historical views of this region with cases primarily from Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 381	Theories and Intellectual Traditions: The Power of Black Music	"Examines a specific Black, Latinx and/or Indigenous intellectual tradition. Through active engagement with theorists and thinkers central to a tradition, students trace their genealogies over time and, at times, across multiple geopolitical spaces. An interdisciplinary lens is used to examine the multiple perspectives which lay the groundwork for as well as expand this tradition. Students encounter archives and counter archives, methodologies, and different kinds of academic material and forms of cultural production. Students are also introduced to classic and paradigm-shifting works in a tradition. This course functions as a bridge towards the senior capstone interdisciplinary research project in the ALST major."	ENGL	3				
ALST 388	The American South: From Reconstruction to the Present	"Examines the historical and social changes of the American South from the end of the Civil War throughout the twentieth century. The South, a region left almost destitute following the Civil War, underwent a major transformation which saw enslaved labor replaced with prison labor, industrialization driven by southern progressives who envisioned a “new South” and race relation struggles that would and still do plague the region. Material and visual culture, literature, journalism, music, food, religion, and recreation serve as course materials. Discussions cover a variety of topics including race, class, gender, southern agriculture, Jim Crow, the southern penal system, immigration, the South and the New Deal, southern labor, religion, cultural expressions through jazz, blues, country, and hip-hop, the civil rights movement, Southern conservatism, and voting rights."	ENGL	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ALST 499	Special Studies for Honors	Students pursuing honors research enroll in this course.	ENGL	3				
ANTH 102	"Culture, Diversity, and Inequality"	"Provides an introduction to cultural anthropology and is intended to help students come to a better understanding of human cultures and societies through the analysis and comparison of specific cases. Students study diverse societies from a wide range of geographic areas and examine topics such as kinship and marriage, economic organization, religion, gender, and social change. Students learn about some of the major theories and theorists in cultural anthropology and examine the way cultural anthropologists collect and interpret data, particularly in the course of fieldwork."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 103	Introduction to Archaeology	"Introduces students to the basic concepts and issues of archaeology today through an examination of both method and theory. Topics include data analysis and interpretation, culture history, prehistoric technology and settlements, and cultural resources management."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 205	Archaeology of Warfare (MC)	"Considers the development of warfare across the ancient civilizations across the globe. Utilizing a massive body of data, archaeology is in a unique position to study how warfare evolved alongside the emergence of civilizations. Students focus on several civilizations, such as Mesoamerica, the Mediterranean, and the Andes to compare and contrast various models of warfare in the ancient world. In some cases, warfare results in the utter annihilation of millions of people. In other cases, warfare is limited to a ceremonial gathering of armies that result in few to no deaths. By understanding the different models of human warfare, students engage with universal questions such as, how and why warfare happens. Is warfare an innate part of humanity? What is and is not warfare?"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 210	Otherworldly Selves in Science Fiction and Anthropology	"Anthropology and science fiction often evoke thoughts of strangers in a strange land, but what does each actually consider “strange”? What are the problems and possibilities that differentiation or assimilation present? Fusing ethnography, theory, film, and literature, this course enhances students’ ability to think critically about questions of (non)human difference, including race, gender, culture, species, time, and space. Themes include the boundaries of self and other, real and imaginary, past/present/future, (post)apocalypse, human and machine, the body and its parts, and familiar and strange, while also challenging these distinctions. Provides opportunities for creative expression, empowers students to utilize literary works and media as interpretive tools for social scientific research, and encourages thinking across the disciplinary divides of science, social studies, and humanities."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 211	Investigating Contemporary Cultures (RI)	"Introduces students to the research methods that anthropologists use to study human beings in all their complexity: the range of qualitative, in-depth, and participatory techniques that comprise ethnography. Through a series of hands-on active research projects, students will learn how to investigate the complex social world we live in, and analyze what they find. The course covers the research process from asking compelling questions, to collecting qualitative data and critically analyzing it, to choosing how to present it. The course also addresses the ethical implications and responsibilities that accompany learning about human beings by interacting with them, and then representing them to others. The readings, lectures, and discussions will explore how anthropological knowledge is generated and anthropology's relationship to political-economic power, historical experience, and personal identity. Students will also gain valuable research methods skills for career choices. (RI)"	SOAN	3	ANTH 102 or ANTH 103 or SOCI 101 or FSEM equiv		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 218	Practices of Peace and Conflict - War in Lived Experience	"Introduces students to a range of approaches and problems in the descriptive analysis of peace and conflict. Juxtaposes core theoretical texts on war and violence from the social and human sciences with detailed ethnographic case studies. Practices of contemporary conflict are paired with the interpretive paradigms whose aim is to understand and resolve them. For example, case studies in terror are paired with the field of trauma studies; specific regional conflicts with theories of global networks; and contemporary mass violence with analysis of genocide perpetration. Introduces students to important methodological paradigms from the social sciences, chiefly from anthropology, sociology, and geography, as well as humanities-based approaches from comparative religion, literature, and language studies."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 222	"Medical Anthropology: Culture, Health, and Social Justice"	"Introduces students to medical anthropology—the study of the relationships among cultures, social systems, the environment, and disease and healing. Interpretations of health and illness, and the experience of one's body are often taken for granted. Yet our ideas about and experiences of health, disease, and medicine are profoundly shaped by culture; by transnational flow of people, ideas, and resources; by histories of colonialism and structural inequalities; and by the development of new technologies. Students are introduced to approaches used by medical anthropologists to study the social, cultural, economic, and political dimensions of the human experience of the body, health, illness, and healing. Topics covered include cultural interpretations of sickness and healing, cultural ideas about the body, social and environmental causes of illness, the effects of poverty on health, the roles of doctors and healers in society, cultural clashes and ethical issues in health care delivery, anthropological critiques of Western biomedicine, and the place of medical anthropology in the study of public health."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 226	Critical Global Health	"In contemporary American society, Western medicine-or biomedicine-is seen as offering quick, effective, and technologically advanced solutions to pain and suffering. Biomedicine is a medical system that privileges the physiological and biological causes of disease. As a clinical science, biomedicine is usually seen as culture-less, as universally effective on all bodies. But what happens when Western medicine goes ""global,"" that is, when it encounters cultural values or beliefs that conceptualize illness, healing, or the body in different ways? Is medicine itself ""cultural,"" and if so, how? This course examines how people experience, use, and critique global health interventions across the globe, and why sociological and anthropological approaches to global health are critical to improving these interventions."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 228	Women and Gender in Prehistory (MC)	"Takes a feminist perspective to the study of gender and identity in prehistoric societies and ancient civilizations. By looking at the variation of gender roles and relations throughout history and cross-culturally, students help to deconstruct many modem-day assumptions about gender and gender roles in the present. The course will provide an overview of how material remains are used for understanding social identities in the past. It will review feminist critiques of archaeology and how feminism has impacted the discipline of archaeology. Students examine archaeological resources for gendering the past (burials, art, artifacts) and explore gender in a range of prehistoric cultural contexts (hunter-gatherers, farmers, states, and empires) using archaeological case studies as examples. Students additionally look at the ways in which historical archaeology has helped to better understand gender relations in historical contexts. Students critically examine how gender and identity have been represented in academic research, museums, and popular media, in order to deconstruct modern-day assumptions about gender. Case studies derive from the earliest human origins, ancient complex civilizations, and recent colonial America. This course is designed for students with little or no background in archaeology or anthropology."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 244	Who Owns Culture?	"Who owns a song? Who owns the tango dance? Who owns knowledge about medicinal plants? Key anthropological questions about culture and property intersect in each of these questions. Native and indigenous societies, whose views on cultural property and heritage have long been marginalized, bring their own perspectives to these questions. With reference to critical anthropological literature, this course uses specific case studies to examine local and global intellectual property and cultural heritage regimes. The topics in this course intersect with the fields of legal anthropology, cultural studies, Native American studies, museum studies, and indigenous studies."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 245	"Nature, Culture, and Politics (MC)"	"The words ""nature"" and ""the environment"" conjure up visions of wild animals and open landscapes, but are people part of nature, too? This course shows how nature and human culture are intertwined, both in terms of how we shape our environment as well as how it shapes us. Through a series of case studies, students explore this relationship, focusing especially on the way that nature and culture are ""political"": inequalities, social problems and movements, and power relations all flow from the way that we interact with our environment. The course takes a global, comparative, and historical view of this process, and includes the following special topics: the rise of environmental awareness and environmental social movements; globalization and environmental values; consumption and the environment; environmental inequalities and justice; risk, technology, and environmental politics; and public policy and the environment. (MC)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 248	African Art	"A study of the principal art styles of sub-Saharan Africa, this course gives attention to both the formal and cultural aspects of indigenous art. The manufacture and usage of art objects is examined within the contexts of local religious, social, and political systems, as well as within the larger framework of language and cultural areas. Traditional art styles are analyzed as products of both collective aesthetics and individual innovation. Attention is given to transmission of art forms from culture to culture and to the persistence of traditional art in the face of social change. (MC, GR)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 249	Art/Architect-Ancient Americas	"Examines the principal art styles of the pre-Columbian cultures of South and Middle America, while also considering their impact on the art of indigenous cultures of North America. Relying on archaeological and art historical sources, students discover the usefulness of art and architecture in reconstructing the cultures of the pre-Columbian past. The course also considers the relationship of art and architecture to the environment; the effects of migration, trade, warfare, and technological innovation on the development of art styles; and the use of art in maintaining social hierarchies, political institutions, and religious systems. (MC, GR)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 250	Native Art of N America	"Relying on archaeological, art historical, and ethnographic sources, this course examines the principal art styles of the indigenous cultures of North America. The course explores such issues as the usefulness of art objects in reconstructing cultures of the past and as historical documents for living peoples; gender roles in art production; the relationship between art, technology, and utility; the use of art as educational tools, memory aids, and religious devices; the relative importance of tradition and innovation; and the role of contemporary art in Native North American life today. (MC, GR)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 252	Muslim Societies in Motion	"How have contemporary global markets, media, and mobility fueled a worldwide Islamic revival? Has expanded access to public schooling and digital media among ordinary Muslims challenged state power and authority—or enhanced it? If pious Muslims rejected Islam’s mystical (Sufi) traditions in the twentieth century, why are many embracing these traditions today? This course poses and answers such questions by exploring Muslim-majority societies across time and place, emphasizing the changing technologies, institutions, practices, and identities that bind them. Major historical topics addressed in the course include Islam’s foundational texts and interpretive traditions, colonial modernity and market capitalism, the rise of nation-states and national identities, and contemporary globalization. Major social-cultural topics include changing media technologies and usage, current Islamic revivalism and Islamic feminist movements, gender and sexuality, knowledge and power, and secularism and non-Muslim religious minorities."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 253	Field Meth/Interpret-Archaelog	"Provides students with hands-on experience in procedures archaeologists employ in collecting, processing, and reporting data. The course revolves around two basic premises: learning about archaeology includes doing archaeology, and doing archaeology involves more than just digging. Training in archaeological fieldwork and data processing is based upon an ongoing research project in Central New York. Each student has the opportunity to participate in various aspects of this research from excavation and field recording to cataloguing and analysis. The culmination of the course is a detailed report based upon research conducted during the semester. (RI)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 300	Museum Studies in Native American Cultures	"Provides an introduction to museum studies with a special emphasis on the interpretation and representation of Native American cultures of the Western Hemisphere. Through readings, lectures, discussions, visits to regional museums, and design of a virtual exhibition, students are introduced to the theory and practice of museology; the care, conservation, and interpretation of material culture collections; and the use of material culture in research and public education. In addition, the course examines 1) the origins and evolution of the ongoing debate concerning representation of Native Americans in museums, 2) the changing relationship between native people and national cultural institutions, and 3) the future of museums on the highly contested multicultural stage of the 21st century."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 305	Science and Society (RI)	"Critically examines techno-science as a transnational social-cultural phenomenon. Using the tools of anthropology, students explores how science is embedded in social, cultural, political and economic systems and processes. Case studies drawn from the Global North and South show how the context in which science is produced and consumed matters. They also demonstrate how techno-science is a transnational phenomenon, in which ideas, objects, methods and practices change as they travel. Critical examination of different sciences and scientists teaches us as much about the social world as it does about the natural one, and challenges the divide between the two."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 315	Gender and Culture	"Focuses on gender as a culturally constructed, historically variable, and politically contested category rather than an immutable biological ""given."" Students have two major objectives: first, to develop a cross-cultural understanding of femininity, masculinity, androgyny, and gendered phenomena generally by examining and comparing gender relations and gender ideologies in a wide variety of human societies, ranging from small bands of hunters and gatherers to post-industrial states; and second, to develop a critical understanding of the types of theories, methods, and data that are relevant to the study of gender and sexuality - including heteronormativity, same-sex relations, transgender practices and identities, ""third sexes,"" and ""third genders"" - in anthropology and related disciplines."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 316	"Religion, Culture, & Media"	"Explores the media practices through which people create and negotiate religious value and meaning. It takes as its starting premise the idea that all religious activity is mediated as well as sensual and that, through anthropological theories of religion, culture, and media, one can gain insight into religions’ growing political power today. The course involves active participant observation of ritual performances and media as well as substantial engagement with theoretical questions anthropologists have posed about religion, ritual, and media over the last century."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 322	Medical Anthropology	"Introduces students to medical anthropology—the study of the relationships among cultures, social systems, the environment, and disease and healing. Interpretations of health and illness, and the experience of one’s body are often taken for granted. Yet our ideas about and experiences of health, disease, and medicine are profoundly shaped by culture; by transnational flow of people, ideas, and resources; by histories of colonialism and structural inequalities; and by the development of new technologies. This course introduces students to approaches used by medical anthropologists to study the social, cultural, economic, and political dimensions of the human experience of the body, health, illness, and healing. Topics covered include cultural interpretations of sickness and healing, cultural ideas about the body, social and environmental causes of illness, the effects of poverty on health, the roles of doctors and healers in society, cultural clashes and ethical issues in health care delivery, anthropological critiques of Western biomedicine, and the place of medical anthropology in the study of public health."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 330	Deep Time:Human Past in S.Afri	"Focuses on how the ""deep African past"" has been imagined and represented by authoritative knowledge-producing institutions including academic disciplines like Anthropology and Archaeology, museums, and site-specific public education projects. The course also considers how authoritative interpretations of ""the past"" reflect contemporary political and nationalist interests, biases, and knowledge-producing projects. The course asks how some indigenous peoples become enshrined as exemplars of the generalized human past, and how their representation shifts with changing views of human nature. The three-week extended study component in South Africa will visit museums, archaeological sites, and historical monuments to more recent events in the history of that country."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 334	Public Health in Africa	"A critical analysis of the cultural, social, political, and economic processes related to the field of global public health in Africa. Taking an anthropological approach, students will be able to identify the main actors, institutions, practices, and forms of knowledge production at work in contemporary public health interventions as they have arisen in African contexts. The course places current interventions in historical perspective, gauging their benefits as well as any unintended consequences."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 335	Global Racialization	"Investigates how race was constructed, focusing specifically on the scientific discourses, policy decisions, legal frameworks, and mediatized narratives that have resulted in the nearly intransigent nature of race as a constitutive element of social life. The investigations begin with the earliest manifestations of scientific racism, which relied on skull collection, human categorization, and racist inferences regarding intelligence, emotions, and physical ability based upon simplistic phenotypic analyses. The course also intervenes in traditional discussions about race, which have tended to place an emphasis on the US case and focus attention on the black/white binary while inadvertently neglecting other racialized groups both in the United States and across the world. Students will investigate how race has taken up a central role in the United States as it pertains to the racialization of Asian Americans and Muslim Americans, while also paying attention to the constructions of race in, for example, India and Iran."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 337	Globalization and Culture	"Globalization has become one of the primary categories by which 21st century change is imagined. Scholars have used the concept to both justify and explain everything from increased social inequality to changing migration patterns to national growth to sectarian strife to corporatization to humanitarianism. Yet, globalization as a category has been ill-defined: is it primarily an economic, political, or cultural process? Where do we see the results of globalization and why? In this context, the city has taken on a renewed focus as the “site” in which these global processes take place, with airports, roads, multinational corporations, information technologies, supranational organizations, and financial centers facilitating global connection between cities. Students draw on anthropological literature and films on global urbanization to provide theoretical foundations and empirical case studies to critically respond to the question: What does the globalization of the city look like? Students choose their own city upon which to conduct secondary research drawing from scholarly articles, news media sources, and documentary film archives to create short essay films that illustrate how global processes reshape their selected urban locale."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 339	Corporations and Power	"Business corporations are among the most influential institutions on the earth today. This course examines the place of corporations in the contemporary world, focusing on their roles critically in global political-economic and social systems, and in our own lives. It considers how studying business corporations can help to better understand capitalism, globalization, work, consumerism, law, inequality, cultural change and personhood. The course delves into case studies that follow transnational corporations from Silicon Valley, to Papua New Guinea, and back again. In addition, the course includes a research component in which students will conduct and analyze original interviews. (RI)"	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 340	Contemporary Native Amer Art	"Examines the responses of Native American artists and critics to issues that face Native American and First Nations peoples of the United States and Canada today. The course first considers the political, social, and economic milieu in which modern and contemporary indigenous art developed. It evaluates terms such as ""traditional"" and ""contemporary"" in discussing indigenous art. The course then focuses on Native artists of the last twenty-five years and the issues addressed in their work."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 341	Archaeology of Death & Burial	"People across the globe and through time have had understandings of death that may appear strange or even shocking to many today. For anthropologists and archaeologists, burials provide evidence for understanding conceptions of death, grief, mortuary rituals, and belief systems in the past. They also learn about the world of the living through the study of human remains and burials. Bioarchaeologists study how social identity, political change, colonialism, social inequality, warfare, and other large-scale social processes manifest physically in the human body. Students will take a close look at cross-cultural variation in understandings of death and mortuary practices through archaeological evidence."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 342	Cultures of Incarceration	"Considers the day-to-day experience of life in prison, not as a site of exception, but as a place from which to better understand life beyond the prison walls. While institutions like prisons, jails and immigrant detention centers are physically set apart by walls and barbed wire, they nonetheless are entangled in larger political, economic and cultural contexts. Students will examine ethnographies and first-person narratives that explore how sites of incarceration shape, and are shaped by, the communities of which these sites – and students - are a part."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 350	Theorizing Contemporary Cultures	"Anthropologists are philosophers of the social. With firm roots in classical social theory, anthropologists have always questioned the relationship of materiality and imagination in human culture, the dialectic of individual and social, the structures of power and authority, the pull of kinship and cosmology, and the cultural patterning of time, space, gender, and story. Anthropology trains our attention on big questions of comparative and global import, but seeks answers in concrete things that people do, say, and make. Anthropological theory thus rests on the empiricism of ethnography, archaeology, and material studies, and provides the questions that drive research. This course links contemporary theoretical work in the discipline with essential forerunner texts and projects. It also considers influential texts from theorists outside the discipline proper, recognizing that anthropology takes insights from many theoretical quarters, and in turn informs theoretical endeavors across the social sciences and humanities."	SOAN	3	ANTH 102 or FSEM 194		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 355	Ancient Aztec Civilization	"Debate key issues surrounding the Aztecs of Central Mexico using archaeological and written evidence to understand ancient Aztec culture. This course explores the great technological achievements of Aztec civilization, its complex rituals and beliefs, bustling marketplaces and cities, and the everyday lives of ordinary people. Questions addressed include: Who were the Aztecs? Why did the Aztecs practice human sacrifice and cannibalism? How did the Aztecs become the largest empire in ancient Mesoamerica? Did the Aztec Empire promote the well-being of its commoners? Was religion used as a tool of domination? What was the role of women in Aztec society? Why did the Aztec Empire fall to the Spanish? What happened to people following the fall of the Aztec Empire? Students will integrate primary sources, archaeological research, and ethnohistory to uncover the Aztec past."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 356	"Ethical Issues in Native American Archaeology (MC, GR)"	"Examines a range of significant ethical issues relating to the archaeology of Native Americans in North America primarily, but also to some extent in Central and South America. Students not only read about and discuss conflicting perspectives leading to ethical dilemmas, but also propose solutions and evaluate existing policies to combat such problems. Some of the key topics covered in the course include the conservation ethic and stewardship; excavation and repatriation of Native American skeletal remains and sacred objects; looting, collecting, and commodification of Native American archaeological sites and artifacts; and public and postgraduate education. In short, the class actively engages in the critical ethical, theoretical, and legal debates surrounding Native American archaeology that have emerged over the past 30 years. (MC, GR)"	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 358	Native American Cultures (GR)	"Focuses on the comparative and historical study of Native American cultures and societies throughout the Americas. Through the reading of several ethnographies, students compare and contrast Native American social, religious, political, and economic institutions and practices from the time of European contact to the present day."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 361	Ancient Environments and Human Legacies (MC)	"Many, if not most of today's geopolitical problems can be traced to how people interact with the environment. Warfare, globalization, market economies, food production, ethnic conflicts, and disease are all contingent on the relationship between human beings and their environments. Focuses on the complexity and nuance of those relationships through both space and time by utilizing an archaeological perspective. While many academic fields now focus on topics relating to environments, archaeology works with a dataset that spans the entirety of human history. Such a dataset allows archaeological researchers to ask powerful and fundamental questions, such as: How do human societies respond to environmental change? Have human beings ever successfully found a balance between themselves and their natural world? What events created today's environmental challenges? What leads to the downfall of a society? Students consider questions like these through various case-studies across the globe that deal with the diversity of human societies and the specific environments from which they emerged."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 364	The Archeology of Mobility and Migration	"Explore how and why people move and how we can identify these ephemeral practices through the archaeological record. Students consider topics of movement and migration such as: the evolution of bipedalism and the spread of hominins, cyclical movements among foragers, farmers, and pastoralists, and major migration events associated with the spread of agriculture, natural disaster, and ancient and contemporary economic, social, and political forces. Students examine a range of social and economic impetuses for movement, and the infrastructure and residues of that movement that are archaeologically visible."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 365	Andean Lives	"While the Andes region may evoke quaint images often seen in tourism advertisements, a focus on the people living in this region reflects globally interconnected dynamics. The course engages with diverse authors who write about the Andes: as a place steeped in highland indigenous traditions; as the place of the Inca Empire; as a place of rural communities in which collective action can take priority over individual interest; as the original source of the coca leaf that has ritual significance through the region and contested political significance in the international sphere; as the birthplace of a Maoist guerrilla movement in the last gasp of the Cold War; and as the place where social movements have challenged global economic systems and brought an indigenous president to power. Through details about the lives of those who reside in the Andes, this course brings together anthropological and historical views of this region with cases primarily from Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador. (GR)"	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 371	Gender and Society in Africa (GR)	"Examines traditional notions about men, women, and reproduction from a number of African societies. Focuses on the impact of European colonialism and other foreign political and economic institutions on women and men. Finally, students study the role of gender in present-day African states, including participation in national life under democratic, socialist, and military regimes, and the challenges and options presented by the future. (GR)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 374	Anthropology of Media	"Examines media in local, national, and global contexts. More specifically, it draws on media theory and on specific ethnographic cases to discern the social force of modern mass-mediated communication within and across contemporary cultures. Topics include the technologization of old media, language and performance; the emergence of mass-mediated ""imagined"" communities; and new social media networks."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 378	Social Theory of Everyday Life (RI)	"Since classical times, philosophers and historians have studied and recorded the details of everyday life with an eye to grasping the meaning of social practice. The past 50 years, however, have seen the burgeoning of an exciting body of critical theory on the quotidian. Much of this work is concerned with profound questions about how the systems, structures, and practices of modernity shape basic human interactions with things, with places, and with other persons, and how these, in turn, reproduce social structures. This course presents sociological and anthropological texts concerned with everyday domesticity, cuisine, gesture, movement, activity, entertainment, talk, schooling, and bureaucracy, and explores the theoretical paradigms of knowledge, practice, and power to which these texts are ultimately addressed. (RI)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 382	"Nations, Power, Islam: Muslim Identity and Community in the Global Age (GR)"	"Muslims today belong at once to a global community of the faithful and to particular ethnic and national bodies. This course examines the social significance of these intersections of identity and community: What political, cultural, and religious conflicts and negotiations mark Muslim identity in the global age? Initial readings survey the colonial age, which forced the integration of Muslim communities into the global capitalist and state systems. With this foundation students then address specific conflicts and congruencies of contemporary Muslim identity in both the Muslim world and the West: between Islamic law and national-state laws; between local Islamic norms and transnational flows of media, persons, and products; between popular Islam and political power. How do these issues affect Muslims and their neighbors? How do they affect geopolitics? What is the present and future of the ""global village""? (GR)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ANTH 452	Senior Seminar in Anthropology	"In this capstone seminar for the anthropology major, students design original research projects grounded in recent anthropological theory and relevant literature on their topics and collect and analyze appropriate ethnographic or cultural data; and each student writes a significant thesis paper. Seminars also focus on intensive reading about select theoretical issues in contemporary anthropology; the specific focus of the seminar reading depends on the instructor."	SOAN	3	(ANTH 102 or FSEM 194 or ANTH 103 or ANTH 211) and ANTH 350		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	All anthropology majors should plan to take this course in fall term of their senior year.
ANTH 495	Honors	This independent study is for candidates for honors and high honors in anthropology.	SOAN	3	ANTH 452 or ANTH 454		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ARAB 121	Elementary Arabic I	"Offers elementary training in the skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing through intensive training in the phonology and script of Modern Standard Arabic and its basic vocabulary and fundamental structure. There is a focus on simple interactive communicative tasks involving the professor and students, and students among themselves. Basic grammar is taught through reading, writing, and speaking drills in conjunction with the formal exercises in the text. This training is supplemented with simple lessons on interpersonal transactions and cultural contexts."	MELL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 122	Elementary Arabic II	"Continues the presentation of fundamentals of Arabic grammar and the development of proficiency in reading, writing, and spoken communication skills and oral comprehension, including extensive cultural material. Provides additional training in formal spoken Arabic, with significant consideration to deviations of certain Arabic dialects. In addition to standard drills, students are expected to engage in structured and semi-structured speaking activities, as well as content-based language activities built around regional topics."	MELL	3	ARAB 121 or MIST 121		Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 191	Indp:Quranic Arabic Recitation		MELL	2			Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 201	Intermediate Arabic I	"Continues the study of Modern Standard Arabic begun in ARAB 121 and 122, or their equivalent. Emphasis is placed on grammatical analysis, writing, and reading of increasingly longer and more complex texts; further vocabulary acquisition; and continued practice in listening and speaking formal Arabic."	MELL	3	ARAB 122 or MIST 122		Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 202	Intermediate Arabic II	"Continues the presentation of fundamentals of Arabic grammar and the development of proficiency in reading, writing, and spoken communications skills and oral comprehension, including extensive cultural material. Students should be able to receive instructions in Arabic. Provides additional extensive training in formal spoken Arabic, with significant consideration to classical Arabic, as well as the deviations of certain Arabic dialects. Students concentrate on extensive reading and writing as well as correct prose. Students encompass interdialectical features as well as the variations of modern standard Arabic; and complete and emphasize the functional as well as the situational aspects of the Arabic language. Students are expected to write brief essays in Arabic and continue to engage in structured and semi-structured writing and speaking activities, as well as content-based language activities built around regional topics."	MELL	3	ARAB 201 or MIST 201 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 301	Advanced Arabic I	"The first part of a year-long advanced Arabic sequence that aims to move students from the intermediate level towards the advanced level of proficiency as defined by the standards set by the American Council of Teachers of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). Designed to enable students to refine and expand their knowledge of Arabic grammar and sentence structures via intensive daily instruction that includes practice of all the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Cultural awareness is also integral to the Advanced Arabic course and is introduced through readings, lectures, and activities, and further reinforced through an assigned cultural project. Conducted in Arabic and most of the materials are authentic."	MELL	3	ARAB 202 or MIST 202		Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 302	Advanced Arabic II		MELL	3	ARAB 301 or MIST 301		Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 401	Topics in Arabic Language and Culture I		MELL	3	ARAB 302 or MIST 302		Human Thought and Expression	
ARAB 402	Topics in Arabic Language and Culture II	"ARAB 401 and ARAB 402 comprise a year-long course sequence aimed at moving students from the Advanced-Low level of proficiency towards the Superior one. Six themes (three in each semester) are selected to represent a wide range of topics that are highly discussed among Arabs and non-Arabs in today’s world. These themes enable students to further develop their abilities to extract essential information and identify linguistic nuances in the four skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) as well as further deepen their understanding of Arab cultures. The courses are designed in accordance with the latest pedagogical philosophy and in light of the national standard guidelines and best practices in teaching Arabic a foreign language. The only language allowed in class is Arabic."	MELL	3	ARAB 401 or MIST 401		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 100	Introduction to Studio Art (SA)	"Introduces creative thinking and problem solving, the challenges of visual representation and expression, and critical methods. Students become familiar with contemporary and historical artistic practices and theoretical frameworks, as they engage in a series of studio based investigations exploring a variety of mediums and materials. ARTS 100 lays important groundwork for students interested in continuing in studio art or concentrating in Art and Art History. In the spirit of the liberal arts, the visual thinking and creative processes central to the course are relevant to a range of other disciplines as well. Attendance at our regularly scheduled ARTS Lecture Series is required. Material cost is $50–$100. This course is a prerequisite for all 200 level studio courses."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 101	Caves to Cathedrals: The Art of Europe and the Mediterranean to the 13th Century (AH)	"Examines some of the best-preserved monuments from ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt, Greece, Rome, Byzantium, the early and medieval Islamic world, and medieval Europe. Lectures, readings and discussions consider why, how and for whom these works were originally created, by examining ancient history, religion, politics, trade, and other social structures. Equal attention is given to recent historical factors that have shaped this “canon” of art history, including colonialism, nationalism, tourism, UNESCO, the art market, museums, and academia, as well as some of the “decolonizing” methodologies that have emerged to push back against those forces."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 103	Arts of Asia: Urbanism (AH)	"Analyzes the development of Buddhist visual cultures as the religion spread over numerous centuries, from South Asia (present-day India and Pakistan) to China, Korea, Japan, Tibet, and Southeast Asia. Lectures and selected readings focus on key elements for understanding artistic and architectural production in the many cultures where Buddhism flourished, with a particular focus on the interplay between religious issues and other factors that resulted in specific changes. Students investigate transformations and continuities in the styles and subjects of Buddhist art forms, including how monuments mark or articulate sacred space as well as the myriad ways that images play a part in Buddhist beliefs and practice."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 105	Introduction to Architecture in Cultural Context (AH)	"An introduction to the analysis of architecture and the understanding of it within its cultural frameworks. Students will develop tools for the analysis of spaces and structures and will become familiar with the vocabulary and the conceptual frameworks essential for understanding the built environment. Historical styles, significant individual structures or complexes, basic principles of urbanism, and the relationship between theory and practice are integrated through select case studies."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 107	What is Modern Art?: Asia	"A survey of art from the turn of the 19th century to the present. Students learn how to analyze the visual strategies of a variety of artworks, and to pose critical questions about their context, especially in relation to political changes, exhibition practices, and modes of circulation. Also an introduction to the discipline of art history, training students for more advanced art history courses by teaching basic vocabulary and techniques of close looking and analytical thinking about visual material."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 108	Lost in Tibet?: Buddhist Art	"Examines certain subjects and styles in order to comprehend the roles of art shaping our understanding of the Himalayas, the area designated by the impressive mountain range dividing the plains of the Indian subcontinent from the Tibetan plateau. Students also consider art within complex political events that have occurred there."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 110	Global Contemporary Art (AH)	"Examines contemporary art's shifting relationship to changes taking place in the world at large: the pressures and challenges, as well as the possibilities that come with globalization and decolonization. It addresses other spaces that emerge through processes of cultural encounter and movement, and the importance of addressing art, culture, and aesthetics on local, regional, and supra-national scales."	ARTS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 115	Islamic Art and The World	"Islamic Culture stood at the crossroads of the known pre-modem world. East and West, North and South, by land or by sea, the Islamic world was the geographical heart through which all paths crossed. This means two things. First, that pre-modem Islamic culture offers insight into the art of the rest of the world. Second, that the rest of the world provided inspiration and artistic fodder to Islamic cultures. To examine this dual proposition and to challenge prevailing opinions of pre-modem cultures through the lens of the Islamic world, students will cover twelve ""points of contact,"" or cases, in which art, architecture, and material culture developed as the result of cross-cultural encounters. Emphasis will be placed on structured looking and an analysis of techniques and technologies."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 201	"Digital Studio: Code, Recipes, Spells (SA)"	"An introduction to digital art that covers select topics from a variety of digital art practices tied to the avant-garde, and rooted indeterminacy, concept, recipe, instruction, structure, algorithm, and procedure. Students make individual and collaborative artworks using instructions, recipes, code, and more. As a result of iteration, remixing, and collaboration, students reconsider the nature of authorship and artistry, and come to see art more as a process than a thing, more dynamic than static. Students are encouraged to explore concepts and programs beyond the basics; group and individual projects will require both rigorous concept development and proficiency in technology. The Little Hall Digital Studio is equipped with Macintosh computers and relevant software."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	Previous Macintosh experience is helpful but not necessary.
ARTS 202	Digital Studio: Distribution and Intervention (SA)	"An introduction to digital art that covers a selection of digital art practices, including reproducible art, networked and telematic art, kits, multiples, fabrication, DIY, and interventionist practices. Students work with digital tools such as vector and raster programs, web-based code environments, and fabrication to produce and distribute art that can operate inside and outside the gallery. The internet, for instance, is considered as a distribution platform and as a potential exhibition space. In working with existing media and technology such as surveillance, students employ “creative misuse” to make playful, humorous, and poignant contemporary artworks. Students are encouraged to explore concepts and programs beyond the basics; group and individual projects require both rigorous concept development and proficiency in technology. The Little Hall Digital Studio is equipped with Macintosh computers and relevant software."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	Previous programing experience is helpful but not necessary
ARTS 205	Landscape - 19th Cent Europe	"Landscape is the place where everything happens. Students study all the arts of landscape in Europe during the period covered: painting, poetry, garden design, selected prose writings, etc. Emphasis is on the exchange of artistic energies between nations, especially, but not exclusively, between Britain and France. From Romanticism (Wordsworth, Blake, Goya) to Impressionism and the Symbolists such as Gauguin, landscape becomes the testing-ground for insights not only into nature, but also into the character of being human."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 206	What the Hand Knows: Medieval Islamic Art as Scientific Experiment	"Art & Science are today seen as wholly distinct entities, while in fact the two are deeply intertwined. In the pre- and early-modem period (ca. 600-1500), particularly in the Islamic world, science was an art which had to be learned and cultivated, and art was an ever-evolving experiment. This course re-frames science within the knowledge of the craftsperson to trace the fundamental pursuits for understanding, knowledge, & truth in artistic practice. Drawing from history of science, history, archaeology, and literary studies, the course will link intellectual and scientific ideas to specific historical moments & artworks through the processes of their making and the experimental knowledge they encapsulate. Makers, tinkerers, and scientists welcome."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 207	Roman Art (AH)	"Introduces students to some of the riches of Roman material culture, including painting, sculpture, architecture, coinage, and urbanism, from the 6th century B.C.E. to the 6th century C.E. Despite this broad time-frame, the aim is not exhaustive chronological coverage. Rather, the course focuses on the social and political contexts that generated the production of particular artworks in the Roman world. Students explore the question of how these works' formal qualities met the needs of ancient patrons, and how they were reused or reinterpreted in subsequent generations."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 209	Art & Politics:Venice/Milan ES	"An in-depth exploration of the history, politics, and ideology that have shaped the display of art in two major Italian cities. Time in Venice coincides with the world’s leading exhibition of contemporary art, the Venice Biennale. Students will also explore the magnificent mosaics of St. Mark’s Basilica, the Baroque architectural masterpiece Santa Maria della Salute, and one of the earliest art museums in Europe, the Accademia galleries, as well as the nearby remains of the important ancient Roman city of Aquileia. In Milan, students will see a world-famous cathedral, Leonardo da Vinci’s Last Supper, and innovative contemporary art spaces such as the Prada Foundation and Pirelli Hangar Bicocca. A day trip will take students to the city of Brescia, with major Roman, medieval, and Fascist layers."	ARTS	2	ARTS 101 or ARTS 207 or ARTS 239 or ARTS 280 or ARTS 348 or ARTS 370 or HIST 120 or MUSE 120			
ARTS 210	Contemp Art & Polt in M. East	"Major developments in contemporary art movements of the Islamicate Middle East, from decolonization in the mid-twentieth century until the present are considered. Thematic areas include debates about cultural heritage, museum policies, and preservation, networks of digital exchange, censorship under authoritarian regimes, art as public diplomacy, and questions of representation amidst an environment of rising conservative Islamic activism. The class examines multi-media artistic production from Morocco to Afghanistan, chronologically contextualizing the politics of cultural production in the colonial period, during decolonization, and against the backdrop of critical global events, such as the Iranian Revolution and the 2011 Arab Spring."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 211	Drawing (SA)	"An introduction to drawing through a series of studio projects, class discussions, and critiques. A variety of attitudes toward, and approaches to, drawing will be explored through viewing the works of historical and contemporary artists. The course will address fundamental drawing skills and introduce a variety of media. The careful development of images is an integral aspect of the course; observation, conceptualization, and expression will be central concerns. The student's cost for materials is about $100."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 212	Destroying Images	What is deliberately destroyed and what is saved around the world raise important questions about how we define cultural heritage and identity. The interpretation of visual works is thus often contentious. Who has the right to define such material which is often but not always also define as art. Students examines selected cases to consider the power of underlying assumptions about the past in the construction of the present.	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 214	Islamic Art and Culture c.700-1700	"Provides an introduction to the collection of artistic and architectural works that have comprised the visual culture of the Islamic world, from the origins of Islam in the 7th century CE, to the period following the Mongol conquests of Eurasia c. 1250. In doing so, students cover landmark monuments such as the Ka’aba, the Great Mosque of Damascus, or the Alhambra, as well as portable objects such as illustrated manuscripts, textiles, or luxury goods. However, students also engage with broader questions of what it means for art to be “Islamic” and how these works of art fit within our understanding of global history. Students should emerge from this course with an enhanced understanding of the role of the arts in the great Islamic empires of the 8th-18th centuries, as well as new perspectives on the breadth of materials, decorative choices, and visual arrangements developed during this time period. Coursework follows a roughly chronological format, and no previous experience in either Islamic studies or Art History is assumed."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 216	Nature's Mirror: Renaissance Arts 1400-1550 (AH)	"Considers painting and sculpture of Europe ca. 1400–1550, examining major artists and regional practices within their social, political, and cultural settings. Themes include the development of linear perspective, the inheritance and interpretation of classical tradition, technologies of art, Renaissance “self-fashioning,” and narrative strategy as approached through visual analysis, primary source readings, and recent critical literature."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 220	Early Modern European Architecture (AH)	"Explores European architectural history and theory from c.1400-1800. It is designed to give the student with little or no exposure to architectural history and thinking, or to the period in question, an understanding of issues ranging from the most fundamental to the more advanced, across a number of contexts and case studies. Engages with architectural history as it relates to the body, place, and site; draws heavily on primary source texts as well as foundational and recent scholarship."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	Recommended for students wishing to prepare for advanced studies in architecture.
ARTS 221	Video Arts (SA)	"An introduction to moving image making as the practice of an art form. Students learn not only technical skills in camera, sound, lighting, and basic editing required for video production, but how to engage with the form critically and creatively as they develop their own personal artistic practice. Class time is divided among screenings, discussions, working on video projects, and critique of student work. Attendance at the weekly Alternative Cinema screening is a required and essential element of this course. Equipment is provided by the department."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160 or FMST 200 or FSEM 163 or instructor permission		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 221L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to ARTS 221.	ARTS	0			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 222	Video Art: Image Recycling	"An introduction to the artistic practice of experimental video production, with a special emphasis on the practical, aesthetic and ethical issues associated with creating new artworks which use pre-existing or ""found"" material: archival documents, advertisements, pop cultural detritus, etc. Special attention will be paid to works of moving image art bridging boundaries between the art world, experimental cinema, amateur or ""outsider'' art and/or popular cultural production. Technical skills in image-based research, collection, curating and editing are introduced in hands-on labs and further developed through a series of short assignments and exercises. This course focuses on editing, sound design and other aspects of post-production; video production (camera) skills will not be emphasized. Equipment is provided by the department. ARTS 222 is designed to complement ARTS 221; the two courses emphasize different aspects of artistic creation in video and can be taken sequentially (in any order)."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160 or FMST 200		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 222L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to ARTS 222.	ARTS	0				
ARTS 223	Analogue Filmmaking	"Introduces students to the art of analogue, film-based cinema. The class spends a semester together creating moving image art. Students explore capturing the enigmatic quality of light using a Bolex 16mm camera; reconstruct time by editing celluloid found footage; observe and experience the photo-chemical processes by working with plant-based protocols; and also explore the dialogues between sound, space and image through foley performances. Towards the end of the semester, the final project is the students’ opportunity to choose their own theme, approaches and format. This may include animation, installation, fiction or nonfiction short film, mixed media work, or other creative forms. All these processes and experiments are tools for students to look for the poetics and rhythms in cinematic art. While working with the analogue materials, students explore possibilities initiated by their touches, body movement, errors, surprises, conversations and collaborations. The course also provides an opportunity to think about how the moving image can be a unique means to question and understand the world around us, and to build a relationship with it. Attendance at the weekly Alternative Cinema screening and engagement with related artist events are essential components of this course."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160 or FMST 200		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 223L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to ARTS 223.	ARTS	0				
ARTS 226	Nature's Order: Arts 1550-1750	"European painting, sculpture, and material culture ca. 1550-1750 in context. Themes include the impact of the Counter-Reformation on the visual arts; Caravaggio and international Caravaggism; ""realism"" and ""verisimilitude""; the intersection of mysticism, spirituality, and art; art and science; theatricality; art as propaganda."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 231	Painting (SA)	"An introduction to the study and practice of painting. Problems related to composition and the formal properties peculiar to this medium are investigated through both prescribed and self-directed studio assignments. Questions related to content and subject matter are explored in studio, class lectures, critiques, and visits by outside lecturers who share their professional expertise in studio art, art history, and art criticism. The student's cost for materials is $150-$350."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 236	Art and Politics in the 19th Century (AH)	"From the 1820s to 1880, artists working on traditional media such as painting and sculpture, as well as on new ones such as photography, engaged everyday life in an environment transformed by industrialization, urbanization, and imperialism. In this period, modern art developed some of its characteristic strategies, such as an emphasis on originality, an ambivalent relation with tradition, problematic ties with cultural and economic institutions, and a strained allegiance to radical politics. This course explores the exhibitions, institutions, and art-critical discourses supporting the circulation of art, with particular regard to the impact of nationalism and globalization on the production and dissemination of art objects."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 238	Transatlantic Avant-Gardes	"Offers a critical and historical examination of the artistic exchanges across the Atlantic — between North America, South America, Europe, and Africa — from 1880 to 1920. Students examine how modern art transformed in reaction and response to radical technological, social, and political change, addressing how industrialization, political and sexual revolution, rapid urban growth, and an expanding consumer culture defined a wide range of visual culture. Students examine painting, drawing, and sculpture alongside the newer media of photography, assemblage, film, and collage."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 240	Art and Theory 1960-1990 (AH)	"Surveys international art movements of the late 20th century that interrogated the definition of art, the status of the art object, and the role of the artist. The crisis of modernism serves as a point of departure for consideration of shifting modes of production and interpretation in art and criticism. Varied theoretical paradigms that have informed artistic practice are examined in the context of rapid and radical social change, the emergence of new media, the breakdown of conventional artistic boundaries, the impacts of decolonization and post-colonial thought, and the explosive growth of the art market and the global circulation of art."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 241	Analog Photography (SA)	"An introduction to analog black and white photography, emphasizing creative expression and critical engagement with photography as a form of art. Students learn the basics of operating a 35mm camera, the principles of film exposure and processing, fundamental darkroom technique, and select alternative processes. Through study and experimentation students gain a material understanding of photography as the manipulation of light and time. Thematic projects – complimented by slide shows and readings – engage the tradition of documentary photography, as well as avant-garde experimentation, and constructed scenes. A limited number of cameras are available for checkout, when possible students are encouraged to provide their own 35 mm camera with manual focusing, aperture, and shutter speed adjustments and a light meter ($150 or so used). Additional student's cost for materials is $200-$300."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 242	Digital Photography (SA)	"Students learn about color photography, studio lighting, digital workflow, and inkjet printing. Special attention is paid to the ideas most closely linked to the emergence of digital photography, including artificial realities, social constructs, and image as information. Students will engage in a series of thematic projects, culminating in a final project of their own design. Through critique, discussion, and writing students are asked to articulate the ideas, issues and visual qualities that animate their work, finding their place in ongoing conversations around photography and contemporary art. A limited number of cameras are available for checkout, when possible students are encouraged to provide their own digital SLR camera with manual settings ($250 or so used). Additional student cost for materials is $100-$150."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160 or ARTS 241		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 243	Art & Theory 1980 to Present (AH)	"Focuses on the artistic outburst in the late 20th and early 21st centuries. Breaking away from the traditional chronological survey of art along a Europe-US axis, students study themes and issues such as relational aesthetics, social practice, critical race theory, and globalization to understand how the canon of art has been reinvented within the contemporary period. Along with studying particular artists and art practices, students discuss the increased importance of curators and exhibitions, especially the biennial system, as central to the circulation and production of contemporary art."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 244	Housing the Sacred in Ancient India (AH)	"Begins with South Asia's most ancient civilization (ca. 2500 BCE) and then tracks the classic forms of Buddhist stupas, rock-cut cave temples, early mosques, and the increasingly grand stone temples dedicated to the worship of Hindu gods. Elegant figures, carved in an aesthetic language that persists in Indian dance, guide visitors through these monuments, teaching them about the nature of the divine. Special attention is devoted to analyzing elements that lend South Asian art its distinctive character."	ARTS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 245	Palaces and Paintings of India (AH)	"As South Asian temple complexes expand, they become entire cities and they share the form of kings' palatial fort-complexes. Expanding outward in concentric rings from their sacred, private cores, these temples and palaces, as well as garden-tombs and houses of government for the British Raj, create visions of divine transcendence on earth, transformative spaces where every visitor has a chance to engage with the ultimate order of creation. This course also explores the paintings made for the people who inhabited these palaces, with special attention to delicate Mughal portraits, impassioned love lyrics favored by Rajput princes, and spaces magically transformed by the presence of the sacred--Hindu, Jain, Buddhist, and Muslim. Special attention in this course is devoted to analyzing elements that lend South Asian art its distinctive character."	ARTS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 246	From Emperors to Anime: Pictorial Practices in China and Japan (AH)	"This is a class about what objects can teach people, and specifically about many kinds of pictures - from temple murals to anime film - in the culturally diverse regions that are now called China and Japan. These sophisticated pictorial forms ask their viewers to employ forms of visual literacy that are in some cases quite different from the ways of seeing the European pictures require. This course is about teaching students to do visual analysis, to see carefully and analyze what they see."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	Previous coursework in art history or Asian studies is helpful
ARTS 248	African Art	"A study of the principal art styles of sub-Saharan Africa, this course gives attention to both the formal and cultural aspects of indigenous art. The manufacture and usage of art objects is examined within the contexts of local religious, social, and political systems, as well as within the larger framework of language and cultural areas. Traditional art styles are analyzed as products of both collective aesthetics and individual innovation. Attention is given to transmission of art forms from culture to culture and to the persistence of traditional art in the face of social change."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 249	Art/Architect-Ancient Americas	"Examines the principal art styles of the pre-Columbian cultures of South and Middle America, while also considering their impact on the art of indigenous cultures of North America. Relying on archaeological and art historical sources, students discover the usefulness of art and architecture in reconstructing the cultures of the pre-Columbian past. The course also considers the relationship of art and architecture to the environment; the effects of migration, trade, warfare, and technological innovation on the development of art styles; and the use of art in maintaining social hierarchies, political institutions, and religious systems."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 250	Native Art of N America	"Relying on archaeological, art historical, and ethnographic sources, this course examines the principal art styles of the indigenous cultures of North America. The course explores such issues as the usefulness of art objects in reconstructing cultures of the past and as historical documents for living peoples; gender roles in art production; the relationship between art, technology, and utility; the use of art as educational tools, memory aids, and religious devices; the relative importance of tradition and innovation; and the role of contemporary art in Native North American life today."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 251	Printmaking (SA)	"The long tradition of printmaking as a means of disseminating ideas and images is central to the medium. Introduces a range of printmaking techniques including digital, lithography and relief. Through studio research, critiques, writing and experimentation, students develop a carefully considered individual approach to projects introduced in class. The semester culminates in the opportunity for students to pursue a print based on a collective theme and produce an edition of prints to be shared with one another. Historical and contemporary prints introduce a range of approaches to printmaking and aesthetic possibilities. The student’s cost for materials is about $150."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 255	"Museum Exhibitions: Design, Rhetoric, and Interpretation"	"Takes advantage of special learning opportunities that arise in conjunction with temporary museum exhibitions and/or permanent installations. Normally focuses on at least two related exhibitions that are currently on view either on Hudson’s campus or at nearby institutions. Students will meet with curators to learn about the exhibit and the decision-making process behind it. Students will examine how museums use wall text, labels, juxtapositions, frames, cases, lighting, architecture, and, above all, their choices of what to include and exclude, to craft particular narratives and encourage particular interpretations of objects and historical phenomena. May also include a hands-on practicum as well, giving students the opportunity to curate and install a real exhibition of their own design."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 257	Colonizing and Decolonizing Museums	"Museums have meant many things to different people over the centuries. The mandate to display and preserve objects of historical interest is a relatively recent meaning. But museums have always had agendas, implicit judgements about the structure of history and the value of culture. Museums came to serve new and quite specific purposes during the 18-19th centuries as European presence expanded around the globe as colonialism and imperialism. Students explore the thinking driving the collecting processes that fed these museums and the display strategies that animated them, both in Europe and in the spaces Europeans colonized. India will serve as the main case study, with comparison cases drawn from Africa and North America."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 260	Social Practice Art	"An introduction to Social Practice Art that covers a selection of practices and methodologies, including participatory art, public art, the role of research, performance, interventionist works, eco-art, political art, and community-based works. Students consider local, global, systemic, networked, and cultural contexts for their work, which might expose, solve, or complicate political or social conflicts. Issues of form, ethics, exhibition, the role of the studio, and the role of the artist in society are addressed in the context of larger discourses in 21st-century contemporary arts practice, where context is often researched prior to generating the form and content of the art work. Students are encouraged to explore practices beyond the basics; group and individual projects require both rigorous concept development and demonstrated concern with relational form."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 263	Sculpture: Surface and Form (SA)	"Introduces, through a series of directed projects, basic sculptural concepts and processes, both analog and digital, in a contemporary critical context. There is a focus on understanding form and space, including direct modeling, digital design and scanning, 3D printing, moldmaking and additive techniques."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160 or ARTS 264		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 264	Sculpture: Material & Process (SA)	"Introduces, through a series of directed projects, basic sculptural concepts and processes, both analog and digital, in a contemporary critical context. There is a focus on a range of processes -- construction, casting, welding, digital design, 3D printing -- and materials -- wood, plaster, metal and plastics."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160 or ARTS 263		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 270	Critical Museum Theory	"Teaches critical approaches to the study of museums as cultural, political, and didactic institutions. Integrates history, theory, and practice to give students an overview of how the museum as a phenomenon came to be, how exhibitions are made, what stories they tell, and the ways in which these stories are experienced by diverse audiences. Students gain insight into the professional practices of museums, as well as their identities as cultural institutions and public resources that also operate according to the priorities of particular communities, municipalities and private patrons. Engages with aspects of art collection, conservation, curation, and restitution of works of art, and the various challenges of visual representation and display, in examples ranging from the deep past to cutting-edge contemporary projects."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 271	Architectur Design:Sustainable	"This studio-based course introduces students to the basic elements of architectural research and design. Beginning with basic exercises in the construction and arrangement of all given shapes, students progress to increasingly more complex design challenges. They learn about programming, circulation, structure, and form in architecture. Design exercises are accompanied by regular lectures on relevant techniques and problems in architecture. Most importantly, students are challenged to address the social implications of the design factors and skills they focus on in this course. Priority is given to juniors, seniors, and students concentrating in art and art history."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 274	Sustainability in Architectural Design (SA)	"This studio-based course develops students' individual responses and points of view to both architectural problems and the discipline itself and explicitly focuses on the architecture of residential buildings. Students learn about approaches that lead to the design of a sustainable building and gain understanding of the principles of Integrated Building Design Process and environmental design factors. Hands-on experience is accomplished by producing architectural drawings of a residential building, generating drawings of decorative gardens, and creating artistic images of buildings and small gardens with the help of 3D architectural software. In addition to lectures and readings related to course topics, class time is spent working on individual or group desk critiques and pin-up sessions."	ARTS	3	ARTS 100 or FSEM 160		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 275	American Campus Architecture: Hudson	"The American Campus, a distinctive planning and architectural tradition, is the focus of this course. In the course of its study, students gain an overview of the evolution of American architecture from the colonial period to the present. Emphasis is on stylistic evolution of structures and the accommodation of shifting educational priorities in campus organization and planning. Analysis of the Hudson campus and its history is part of the course."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 277	Modern Architecture 1880-1970 (AH)	"Studies the emergence of a self-consciously modern architecture in European and the United States at the turn of the 20th Century, follows its maturation in the interwar period, and explores its international proliferation following World War II. Students become familiar with many key buildings and architects as well as the theory associated with them."	ARTS	3	ARTS 105 or ARTS 207 or ARTS 220 or ARTS 246 or ARTS 271 or prereq override		Human Thought and Expression	Experience of ARTS 105 is valuable but not necessary
ARTS 280	Visual Culture of Fascism	"Through a close analysis of cultural production and ideological statements, this course will examine the relationship between the politics of fascism and its visual practices, analyzing the role of art in the formation of the regimes' self-identity and in the formation of the fascist subjects. Students will consider the related but diverse manifestations of fascist culture in Japan, Germany, France, Spain, and Italy in order to compare and contrast the heterogeneous modes of fascist visual culture in the interwar period. As well as examine responses to fascism in countries such as Great Britain, the United States, and Mexico, in order to understand the ways in which liberal regimes reacted to the visual propaganda of totalitarianism. Materials will include painting, sculpture, architecture, photography, graphic design, film, and forms of public spectacle and pageantry."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 287	History & Theory of Cinema	"This survey of the history of cinema examines all aspects of filmmaking, the development of cinematic language, and film theory in relation to intellectual thought in the 20th century. Emphasis is on the development of film analysis as well as individual visual thinking. All students enrolled in the course are required to attend the Tuesday evening Alternative Cinema series."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 287L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to ARTS 287.	ARTS	0			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 288	Hist & Theory of Photo Image	"Studies the photographic image, concentrating on the first hundred years of photography (1839-1939). The flawed and paradoxical inventions of photography gave rise to an experimental period during which photographers, while they knew that a photograph could be made, did not fully understand why it happened. Demands for artistry occasioned hand-work on the image, printing a single photograph from multiple negatives, experimenting with focus, hand-colouring of images, etc. Instead of seeing these as bungling transgressions of some photographic essence, we should view them instead as experimental works of art. The latest and most useful ways of approaching historical photographs are introduced."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 302	AdvDigStud:Interactivity&Narra	"Digital Studio II builds on the aesthetic investigations and technical skills introduced in ARTS 201 or ARTS 202. Discussion, critical reading, and evaluation of contemporary works are incorporated into the course. Students create advanced works of art that demonstrate a significantly more sophisticated use of both theoretical and technical aspects of digital art. ARTS 302 emphasizes the possibilities for narrative with the advent of decentralized networks, interactive interfaces, and participatory art forms."	ARTS	3	ARTS 201 or ARTS 202		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 312	Advanced Drawing (SA)	"Builds on the fundamental skills and the various approaches to drawing introduced in Drawing I. Assignments will require students to build on prior strengths as well as explore new approaches, both conceptually and technically. This will be accomplished by examining a wide range of artists and approaches to image making. Working at this level presupposes a willingness to work with a series of challenging problems and develop sophisticated, well resolved solutions. The student's cost for the materials is $150."	ARTS	3	ARTS 211		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 340	Contemporary Native Amer Art	"Examines the responses of Native American artists and critics to issues that face Native American and First Nations peoples of the United States and Canada today. The course first considers the political, social, and economic milieu in which modern and contemporary indigenous art developed. It evaluates terms such as ""traditional"" and ""contemporary"" in discussing indigenous art. The course then focuses on Native artists of the last twenty-five years and the issues addressed in their work."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 342	Advanced Photography	"An intermediate level course in photography that includes lecture-demonstrations, reading, writing, discussions, critiques, studio, field, and lab work. Assignments are structured to reinforce foundations and introduce specialized techniques in image control and manipulation. The course encourages students to use the photographic processes as a means of both investigation and expression. Students learn to integrate a sophisticated conceptual framework with technical skills and a distinct personal vision. The student's cost for materials is $100–$400."	ARTS	3	ARTS 241 or ARTS 242		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 344	Hindu Temple Architecture	"From rock-cut halls carved into cliffs to elaborately ornamented constructions with multiple interior spaces, the buildings that have housed worship of the Goddess Shiva, Vishnu, and other deities of the Hindu pantheon honor the ideals of the divine palace and of the silent caves embedded in a mountain. This course explores what characteristics the wide range of Hindu temples share, how they vary from one region to another, and how they changed from the 3rd century BCE to 12th century CE. What do they share with structures for Buddhist, Jaina, and Muslim worship? How did ritual shape buildings and sculpture, and can we reconstruct ritual from material remains?"	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 346	"Latin American Modernism, 1922-1968"	"Examines how Latin American artists responded to development and dependency discourses in the context of accelerated modernization, and how modernity was visually constructed in the region. Students consider a wide variety of media, including films, exhibitions, posters, and texts, with an eye toward local and global events that prompted their production — especially World War II, the cultural policies of the Cold War, and the rise of revolutions and dictatorships. In addition to the idea of modernism, the focus is on examining how modernist artworks embodied, challenged, and shaped the idea of Latin America. Students probe the construction of ""Latin American art"" by adopting a hemispheric and a transatlantic lens, exploring the circulation of artists, ideas, and objects and their framing in key exhibitions and collections."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 348	Modern Art on Display	"Explores the history of group exhibitions of modern art and related debates on the nature of display. Using visual, historical, and theoretical materials to study select case studies from the late 19th to the mid-20th centuries, students will focus on how the history of art display impacts our understanding of modernism today, studying installations of art as creations that manifest ideologies and aesthetics. An important aspect of the course will be thinking about how photography — the primary medium through which we can now know how past exhibitions looked like — operates as a medium of visual representation as well as a force of cultural innovation by circulating modern art. In addition to the study of the history of exhibitions, students will also investigate the changing role of the art critic and the curator. As part of the course, students will study exhibitions on campus, applying to contemporary shows the critical skills learned by studying art displays from the past."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 354Z	Printmaking II		ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 355	Photography & Political Conf	"Offers a critical and historical examination of the relation between photography and political conflict. Considering some key international photographic experiments in the context of the social, cultural, and political upheavals of their time, key to the course will be the broader question of how modern visual culture transformed in reaction and response to political change. By looking at the history of 19th- and 20th-century culture in its engagement with the new media of photography, the course will examine how innovative ideas about representation challenged traditional hierarchies and the audiences' relation to images. Among the topics that will be covered will be the history of photography in relation to colonialism, issues of photographic display and exhibitions, and notions of the documentary and the fictional in contemporary photography. Students will develop visual literacy, and become familiar with the complex relations between photography and its context through discussion and analysis of key artistic and photographic movements, practitioners, and techniques. Students will also develop research skills through digital projects that will involve the collections at the Picker Art Gallery and at Case Library, as well as those of George Eastman0 House and the traveling exhibition ‘This Place’."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 357E	"Cracow, Poland (Ext Study)"	"Bringing together students who have had diverse introductions to Polish culture after WWII, students examines how, in distinct but interrelated ways, Polish art and post-WWII religion each reacted to an era of extreme political instability and horrific violence. Students on this trip pay special attention to how, even decades after the second World War, these broader cultural and religious developments simultaneously persist, are contested, and undergo re-imagination in contemporary Poland."	ARTS	2				
ARTS 357EX	Poland ExSt/Polish CLAC		ARTS	0				
ARTS 360	Borderlands (AH)	"Examines the form and transmission of art and architecture in the eastern and southeastern borderlands of Europe from the 15th through the early 19th centuries. By focusing on early modern ""cultural fault lines,"" students study the ways in which traditions and identities particular to the area shaped visual expression and the built environment. Draws on examples chiefly from within the former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, the Kingdom of Bohemia, the Kingdom of Hungary, the Holy Roman Empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the Venetian Republic. Students consider what is particular about the arts and architecture in the borderlands, and by extension the impact of geography on visual culture."	ARTS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 361	Boundary Consciousness: 1960s	"Examines the “long"" or the ""global"" 1960s and the ways in which many of its notable artists and thinkers made work that engaged with the plasticity and expansiveness of boundaries, both physical and immaterial, during a politically charged and transnationally interconnected moment in which many seemingly fixed and supposedly natural boundaries were tested and compromised. Engages with a range of artistic, political, and cultural boundary-formations and their breeches, drawing out connections between representation, interpretation, visibility, space, and power in select global case studies of 1960s art. Introduces new and emerging methodologies in the field, and engages with the challenges and the possibilities of narrating history from beyond installed categories of knowledge. Also gives students a methodological context for historicizing the discipline of art history itself, which came of age in the 1960s in the academy yet still largely understands fields of artistic production as territorially bounded to nation-states and ethnic regionalisms."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 362	Advanced Social Practice Art	"Advanced Social Practice Art will challenges students to deconstruct how people communicate, why people commune, and how structures of communication and community create spaces for othering and belonging. Students survey these burgeoning contemporary art genres assuming that each project addresses context, challenges form and engenders original content for and with new intersections of audience and participant, where ""street"" movements, guerilla tactics, social media and local/global collide. Student work with peers and community will be highly participatory and experiential."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 363	War and Plunder	"Studies the destruction, appropriation, reconstruction, and restitution of European art and architectural heritage. Temporal focus on the fifteenth to twentieth centuries with special attention given to the Nazi and Soviet invasion and occupation of Poland during WWII with respect to the fate of cultural heritage. Considers local and international conflict and post-conflict responses."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 375	Advanced Projects in Studio Art (SA)	"Students will develop a distinctive artistic practice and personal voice by building on previous strengths and addressing weaknesses. Conceptual, perceptual, and technical work will be deepened through a series of thematic prompts culminating in an independent project, to be exhibited at the end of the semester. Through encounters with other artists, select readings, research, presentations, writing, and rigorous critiques, students will pioneer a cohesive body of work and situate it within a legacy of arts practice, disciplinary and interdisciplinary dialogues, social issues, and contemporary arts."	ARTS	3	Two Studio Arts courses		Human Thought and Expression	Studio Arts Emphasis majors must take before the fall of their senior year.
ARTS 381	Seminar in Art History: Pre-1300:Pre-Modern Fashion and a Sustainable Future	An umbrella course designed to utilize the expertise of the Art History staff and to explore specialized themes as they relate to the art of diverse cultures and geographical areas during the centuries before 1300 CE.	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 383	"Seminar in Art History: After 1800: Scandals, Controversies and Debates in the Art World (AH)"	"An umbrella course designed to utilize the expertise of the Art History staff and to explore specialized themes as they relate to the art of diverse cultures and, geographical areas during the centuries since 1800 CE."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 406	Senior Project: Studio Art (SA)	"Students work closely with a faculty member to develop and realize a coherent body of studio work that serves as a capstone for the concentration. It is the culmination of previous coursework that has required conceptualization, an understanding of artistic theoretical frameworks and technical knowledge. Class meetings serve as an opportunity to share ideas and work in progress; regular critiques incorporate the critical language acquired in ARTS 375. Work from the project is shown as part of a senior exhibition at the end of the term. All students with a studio arts emphasis are required to take and complete this course in the fall of the senior year."	ARTS	3	ARTS 375 and (ARTS 240 or ARTS 243)		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 475	Senior Project: Art History (AH)	The student works closely with a faculty member to develop and complete a substantive independent research paper. Majors with an art history emphasis are required to take and complete ARTS 475 in the fall of their senior year.	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 483	Honors Seminar in Contemporary Art	Seminar in Art after 1800. Topics vary by semester.	ARTS	3	Appropriate 200- or 300-level course		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 491	Ind: Honors	"Opportunity for individual study in areas not covered by formal course offerings, under the guidance of a member of the faculty."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 499	Advanced Studies for Honors	For students pursuing honors in Art History. Normally taken as an independent study with the faculty member whose expertise most closely matches the area of the student's project.	ARTS	3	ARTS 475 or ARTS 406		Human Thought and Expression	
ARTS 591	Introduction to Studio Art		ARTS	3				
ASIA 121	Elementary Korean/NY6	"This is a hybrid course that will be conducted through a synchronous online connection blended with more traditional online learning methods. The course is designed for students with little or no previous knowledge of Korean. In order to take and complete the class, students are expected to have moderate proficiency using computers, e.g. at ease with Skype interaction as well as online navigating."	HIST	2				
ASIA 123	Elementary Hindi I/NY6	"Designed primarily for those who have no, or very little, exposure to Hindi language. Students will learn to read Hindi through Devanagari script and learn basic survival linguistic skills needed in day to day life in the target language. A proficiency-based course with emphasis on four skills: reading, writing, listening and speaking."	HIST	3				
ASIA 313	Env Prob & Env Actvsm in China	"Explores China's complex environmental issues, their historical roots, and social implications. It also examines the rise of environmental social activism in China. The course will utilize pedagogical methods from InterGroup Relations (IGR) to provide students with the intellectual tools to analyze issues of power, privilege, and identity and by extension, their own position in the world in relation to these environmental issues. This course is linked to an extended study to China. Students will travel to the People's Republic of China, where they will examine sites of environmental problems, but also meet activists and see their work in progress. The trip will also bring to the forefront some of the issues of power, privilege, and race issues that were discussed in the course."	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ASIA 313E	Env Activism/China Extended St	"This extended study is linked to the on-campus course ASIA 313. Students will travel to the People's Republic of China, where they will examine sites of environmental problems, but also meet activists and see their work in progress. The trip will also bring to the forefront some of the issues of power, privilege, and race issues that were discussed in the course."	HIST	2				
ASIA 313L	Env Prob & Actvsm in China Lab	"Examines the rise of environmental social activism in China; the historical, political, cultural, and economic roots of China's current environmental problems, including deforestation, air pollution, water pollution, and species loss. Students learn theories of environmental justice and explore the rise of environmental activism in the PRC. The course will utilize pedagogical methods from InterGroup Dialogue (IGD) to provide students with the intellectual tools to analyze issues of power, privilege, and identity and by extension, their own position in the world in relation to these environmental issues."	HIST	1				
ASIA 499	Special Studies for Honors	Students pursuing honors research enroll in this course.	HIST	3				
ASTR 101	Solar System Astronomy	"Deals with the exploration of the solar system through ground-based observations and spacecraft missions. Topics include motions of solar system objects, properties of the solar system, origin and evolution of the solar system, uncovering the nature of objects in our solar system through comparative planetology, detection techniques and characteristics of planets orbiting other stars, and the possibility of life elsewhere in the universe. Evening observing and Ho Tung Visualization Lab sessions supplement lectures."	PHAS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 102	"Stars, Galaxies & the Universe"	"Explores our modern view of the universe. Building on several basic observational techniques and physical principles, students demystify the science of astronomy and illuminate the evidence that establishes our physical understandings of stars and planetary systems, galaxies, and the universe. Students seek evidence-based answers to questions including: Of what stuff are stars made? What powers the Sun and other stars? How do stars and planetary systems form and evolve? Do other Earth-like planets exist? What determines the distribution and nature of galaxies in the universe? How did the universe begin and what is its future? Ho Tung Visualization Lab and observing sessions supplement lectures."	PHAS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 210	Intermediate Astronomy and Astrophysics	"A discussion of the fundamental physical principles of astronomy and astrophysics emphasizing topics of current interest such as stellar structure, evolution, neutron stars, black holes, and the interstellar medium."	PHAS	3	(MATH 161 or MATH 162 or MATH 163) and PHYS 233 (PHYS 233 may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 220	Deciphering the Sky	"An investigation of the observed motions of the stars, Sun, Moon and planets in the celestial sky. Study of the physical models that explain these motions. The historic and cultural development of our understanding of celestial motions will be considered. Using the planetarium capabilities of the Ho Tung Visualization Laboratory, observations will be made of the night sky from different locations on Earth over time intervals ranging from minutes to centuries. Basic algebra, trigonometry and graphs will be used to quantify and visualize these motions. Additional outdoor observing sessions will supplement the class instruction."	PHAS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 312	Astronomical Techniques	"A laboratory course introducing students to basic astronomical observations, methods of data acquisition and reduction using the university's 16-inch telescope, CCD electronic camera, and image-processing workstation. Students are instructed in methods of astronomical imaging including detector calibration and atmospheric effects; in fundamentals of photometric reductions, including obtaining a light curve for a selected variable star; and in astronomical spectroscopy and spectral classification."	PHAS	3	PHYS 232 or ASTR 101 or ASTR 102 or ASTR 210		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 312L	Astronomical Techniques Lab	Required corequisite to ASTR 312.	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 313	Planetary Science	"Study of the solar system with emphasis on physical processes. Topics include formation of the solar system, planets, moons, asteroids, comets, meteorites, orbital mechanics, tides, atmospheric structure, planetary surfaces and interiors, impact cratering, and rings. Although challenging in breadth, this course is intended to be accessible to juniors and seniors majoring in physics, astronomy-physics, astrogeophysics, chemistry, or geology."	PHAS	3	(MATH 111 or MATH 161 or MATH 112 or MATH 162 or MATH 113 or MATH 163) and (PHYS 232 or any two GEOL courses)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 414	Astrophysics	"A study of stellar atmospheres and interiors, this course develops a fundamental understanding of stars and their evolution from the application of several basic principles found in atomic physics, electricity and magnetism, Newtonian mechanics, and statistical mechanics. Topics include fusion processes, reaction rates, stellar structure, the formation of spectral lines, opacity and optical depth effects, and radiative processes in the interstellar medium."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 416	Galactic and Extragalactic Astronomy	"Study of the astronomical techniques, methods, and fundamental data relating to the Milky Way Galaxy and objects located outside our galaxy, such as normal galaxies, radio galaxies, and quasars. Topics include galactic stellar populations, large-scale structure and rotation of the galaxy, the structure and content of other galaxies, galaxy classification, clusters of galaxies, active galactic nuclei, quasars, and the large-scale structure of the universe. The physical processes responsible for the radio, infrared, visual, and x-ray radiation from these objects are studied in detail."	PHAS	3	PHYS 233		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ASTR 591	"Stars, Galaxies & the Universe"		PHAS	3				
ASTR 592	Deciphering the Sky		PHAS	3				
BIOL 101	Topics in Organismal Biology	"Introduces students to the complexities of biodiversity, from the ecosystem to the genetic level. By examining the factors affecting the structure and function of terrestrial, marine, and freshwater communities, students learn about the diversity of organisms in these systems. Students gain an appreciation for the roles of evolutionary and ecological history, as well as modern ecological interactions, in shaping biodiversity across the globe. Students are exposed to the many ways that human activities affect biodiversity."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	First-year students and non-science majors. May be beneficial for entering students who do not have extensive biology background in preparation for enrollment in the foundation courses (BIOL 181 and BIOL 182). Not intended for students who have completed a biology foundation course.
BIOL 102	Topics in Human Health	"Human beings are composed of nearly 100 trillion cells of over 200 different specialized types. For an individual to remain alive and healthy, these cells must be effectively organized into tissues and organs that perform specific functions. This course examines external and internal factors that influence both normal and abnormal cell, tissue, and organ function, providing students without an extensive science background with exposure to the biology of human health and disease. Course topics include human diet and nutrition and the cell biology of disease. Students examine how biologists address issues relating to health and disease and how our understanding of basic biology contributes to enhancing human health. The course is composed of lectures and discussions, and may include in-class laboratory-based exercises."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	First-year students and non-science majors. May be beneficial for entering students who do not have extensive biology background in preparation for enrollment in the foundation courses (BIOL 181 and BIOL 182). Not intended for students who have completed a biology foundation course.
BIOL 181	"Evolution, Ecology, and Diversity"	"Concentrates on the evolutionary biology of organisms and the ecological processes that influence the distribution and abundance of plants and animals, as well as their interactions. The history of biological diversification (including the origin of life; the evolution of prokaryotes and eukaryotes; and the invasion of land by plants, fungi, and animals) is discussed. In addition, the mechanisms of evolution, including natural selection, adaptation, and extinction, are studied. Topics in population ecology as they relate to evolutionary processes including physiological and behavioral ecology, population growth, and species interactions (e.g., competition, predation, mutualism) are also covered; there is a strong focus on the physical, chemical, and biological factors that affect populations. The course ends with studying ecosystem ecology and the impacts of global warming and anthropogenic impacts on the environment."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 181L	"Evolution, Ecology, and Diversity Lab"	Required corequisite to BIOL 181. Projects in the laboratory and field include experiments designed to understand evolutionary principles and to test ecological hypotheses.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 182	"Molecules, Cells, and Genes"	"At the level of molecules and cells, the different forms of life on earth are surprisingly similar. This course introduces aspects of life at the cellular and molecular level that are broadly applicable to all living things. The course begins by examining the basic chemistry of life. Building on this chemical foundation we develop an appreciation for cellular structure, the central role of cellular membranes, cellular energetics, and cell growth and reproduction. Special emphasis is placed on proteins and nucleic acids as the informational macromolecules, and how cells use these molecules to encode and express a genetic program. Mechanisms of inheritance are examined from both a classical and a modern molecular perspective."	BIOL	3	CHEM 101 or CHEM 111		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 182L	"Molecules, Cells, and Genes Lab"	Required corequisite to BIOL 182. This laboratory features experimental approaches in both modern cell biology and genetics.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 201	Evolution	"Uses the study of evolutionary biology to explore the collaborative process of scientific research, the critical reading of primary literature, the design and implementation of experimental studies, quantitative skills, and the interpretation and communication of research results. Like in all 200-level courses, students focus on the “process” of exploring biology. Provides for a study of how evolutionary theory illuminates and unifies our vast and growing knowledge of the biological world and affects many aspects of our lives. Emphasis is on the observations and experiments that have led to our current understanding of evolutionary processes and on the dynamic nature of evolutionary research."	BIOL	3	(BIOL 181 or BIOL 211) and (BIOL 182 or BIOL 212)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 201L	Evolution Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 201. The laboratory includes investigative experiments that familiarize students with the approaches used to address questions in evolutionary biology.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 202	Genetics	"Uses the study of genetics to explore the collaborative process of scientific research, the critical reading of primary literature, the design and implementation of experimental studies, quantitative skills, and the interpretation and communication of research results. Like in all 200-level courses, students focus on the “process” of exploring biology. Provides students with a firm foundation in classical, quantitative and molecular genetics and covers topics in population genetics. Emphasis is on understanding how organisms encode, regulate, and inherit their genomes; current genetic applications; and the social and ethical issues that result from these technologies."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 202L	Genetics Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 202. The laboratory includes investigative experiments that familiarize students with the classical techniques used to address questions in genetics.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 203	Ecology	"Uses the study of ecology to explore the collaborative process of scientific research, the critical reading of primary literature, the design and implementation of experimental studies, quantitative skills, and the interpretation and communication of research results. Like in all 200-level courses, students focus on the “process” of exploring biology. Emphasizes the quantitative aspects of ecology by exploring concepts of population and community ecology including competition and predation, the use of diversity and community similarity indices, population regulation models, island biogeography, food web analysis, and community and ecosystem-level processes. In addition to textbook readings, students also read papers from the primary literature on topics covered in class."	BIOL	3	(BIOL 181 or BIOL 211) and (BIOL 182 or BIOL 212)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 203L	Ecology Lab	"Required corequisite to BIOL 203. The laboratory includes field trips to examine terrestrial and aquatic communities, exposing students to field methods that quantitatively measure population and community parameters."	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 204	Molecular Biology	"Uses the study of molecular biology to explore the collaborative process of scientific research, the critical reading of primary literature, the design and implementation of experimental studies, quantitative skills, and the interpretation and communication of research results. Like in all 200-level courses, students focus on the “process” of exploring biology. Provides for a study of biological processes at the molecular level, including transcription, RNA processing, translation, DNA replication and recombination. Emphasis is on understanding the experiments that have led to our current knowledge of molecular processes and, in particular, the means by which these processes are regulated."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 204L	Molecular Biology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 204. The laboratory includes investigative experiments that familiarize students with the molecular techniques used to analyze problems in molecular biology.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 205	Cell Biology	"Cells are the basic units of life. This course uses the study of cell biology to explore the collaborative process of scientific research, the critical reading of primary literature, the design and implementation of experimental studies, quantitative skills, and the interpretation and communication of research results. Like all 200-level courses, this course focuses on the “process” of exploring biology. Course topics include regulation of the cell cycle and cell division, cell structure and motility, inter- and intracellular communication, and organelle structure and function. Students learn how to critically read and evaluate primary journal articles and will integrate content from the course and published literature into multi-week, lab-based investigative research projects."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 205L	Cell Biology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 205.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 206	Organismal Biology	"Organismal biology is the study of how structure and function of individual organisms shape ecology, evolution, and biological diversity. This course uses the study of organismal biology to explore the collaborative process of scientific research, the critical reading of primary literature, the design and implementation of experimental studies, quantitative skills, and the interpretation and communication of research results. Like all 200-level courses, BIOL 206 focuses on the “process” of exploring biology. Students focus on physiological and ecological problems that arise as organisms interact with their environment, and examine these interactions between and within major groups of organisms."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 206L	Organismal Biology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 206. Includes field trips to terrestrial and aquatic environments that expose students to local diversity and to techniques frequently used in the field.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 301	Parasitology	"Introduces students to the range of eukaryotic organisms that cause parasitic diseases in humans. The focus is on globally important helminths, protozoans, and arthropods. The latter will be covered as both agents and vectors of human parasitic diseases. Topics covered include biology, geographical distribution, sources of infections, life cycles, route(s) of transmission, clinical disease, and control/preventive measures. The basic principles of laboratory diagnosis and treatment of parasitic diseases are included in the course to enhance the practical parasitology knowledge of the students. The course includes reading of the primary literature, and requires oral and written critical analysis of the literature."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 301L	Parasitology Lab	Parasitology labs will provide to students with an opportunity to identify and study the various developmental stages of common parasites of the human. Labs will focus on examining preserved specimens and prepared slides. Required corequisite to BIOL 301.	BIOL	1				
BIOL 302	Systems Biology	"Systems biology is an emerging interdisciplinary field that focuses on system level understanding of complex interactions of biological processes using quantitative approaches. The course focuses on the applications of mathematical techniques such as differential equations, network structure measures, machine learning and modeling (e.g., Boolean and stochastic modeling) to the study of gene regulation, synthetic gene circuits, small- and large-scale biological networks, and signal transduction pathways. Students also learn how to use computer software that is designed for biological data analysis such as GenePattern and COPASI."	BIOL	3	(MATH 161 or MATH 162) and (BIOL 182 or MATH 163 or PHYS 201 or COSC 101)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 304	Invertebrate Zoology	"Covers the biology of the major animal groups. Attention is given to the phylogenetic history, functional morphology, development, physiology, medical importance, and ecology of representative invertebrates."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 305	Vertebrate Zoology	"Has an evolutionary theme and investigates the diversity of vertebrate animal life. Emphasis is on evolutionary origins and phylogenetic relationships, basic structure and function, development and reproduction, behavior, zoogeography, and interrelationships with the environment."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 305L	Vertebrate Zoology Lab	Students examine the morphology of selected vertebrates with dissection of preserved materials and also includes study of vertebrate natural history of local species in the field.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 306	Medical and Forensic Botany	"The great majority of people understand that plants are fundamental to life: they produce life sustaining oxygen, cleanse the air of carbon dioxide, provide material for construction, and more. Yet few people appreciate that modern medicine has its roots in the chemistry of plants. From headaches and malaria to AIDS and hypertension, most modern drug treatments originated from plant extracts. Even in the modern world of sophisticated synthetic chemistry, 25 percent of all prescriptions contain plant extracts or active principles prepared from plants. More than providing pain relief and disease cures, the search for effective medical botany has shaped cultures, created fierce wars, and contributed to the modern issues of bio-prospecting, drug wars, and crime scene investigation. This course delves into issues of medical and forensic botany from multiple perspectives. Students develop a greater understanding of basic plant biology and phytochemistry, and learn how many cultures have utilized plants for curative and destructive means. Students also examine how plant-derived drugs have disrupted both ancient and modern cultures, and have shaped the scientific method and modern drug creation. Finally, the class examines how plants play significant roles in early and modern forensics by focusing on major cases whose decisions have hinged on plant evidence."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 306L	Medical & Forensic Botany Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 306.	BIOL	1				
BIOL 310	Epidemiology	"Provides an introduction to epidemiology, the basic science of public health. Epidemiology provides a systematic approach for acquiring and evaluating information on the distribution and causes of disease and other health outcomes in populations. Topics include the history of epidemiology, an overview of epidemiologic methods (e.g., study design, measures of disease distribution and association, interpretation), and the application of epidemiologic research to the development and evaluation of disease prevention and control strategies. Current or historically relevant infectious and chronic diseases are explored through lectures, interactive exercises, and independent assignments."	BIOL	3	BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 311	Comparative Physiology	"All animals are faced with similar fundamental problems, namely, acquiring and using energy, exchanging nutrients and wastes with the environment, balancing water and electrolytes, and reproducing. This course is about how animals address these problems in the context of the varied (and sometimes extreme) environments in which they live. With evolution as a unifying theme, both the general principles of animal function (the similarities among different animals) and the exceptions to the general rules are investigated. Topics include size and scaling, energy metabolism, temperature tolerance and regulation, gas exchange, water and osmotic regulation, respiration and circulation, excitable tissue, and global climate change physiology. General principles of animal physiology are also explored using examples of animals that live in extreme environments. When offered, BIOL 311L is a required corequisite."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 311L	Comparative Physiology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 311. This laboratory involves hypothesis-guided experimentation with quantitative analysis of data.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 313	Microbiology	"Microbiology is an incredibly broad field that involves the study of organisms that cannot be seen without the aid of a microscope. Despite their small size, microbes are critical components of our bodies and ecosystems. This course examines the diversity of microbes in nature and their importance in human affairs from disease to agriculture. It also examines the characteristics of individual microorganisms that enable them to inhabit particular environments. Topics include microbial cell biology, genetics, metabolism, ecology and pathogenesis."	BIOL	3	BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 313L	Microbiology Lab	"Required corequisite to BIOL 313. Projects in the laboratory include identification of microbes and experiments aimed at understanding their growth, physiology, and genetics."	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 315	Biology of Plants	"Covers organisms in three kingdoms: Protista, Fungi, and Plantae. Topics include cell structure, reproduction, transport, and metabolism. There is an emphasis on photosynthesis, diversity, and evolution in fungi, protists, and land plants. Features of seed plant morphology, anatomy, translocation of water and minerals, gas exchange, and reproduction are discussed."	BIOL	3	BIOL 181		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 315L	Biology of Plants Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 315.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 316	Bioinformatics	"Recent developments in biological data collection have led to the creation of large-scale experimental data sets of DNA and protein sequences and structures of biological molecules. These data are available for public use from an array of databases, and their analysis is intriguing. This course provides an introduction to the use of computational methods and tools to extract useful information from these large datasets, and focuses on interpreting this expanding biological information. Students discuss the basics of bioinformatics and focus on the identification and characterization of functional elements from protein and DNA sequences. Students also learn to use public databases and web-based sequence analysis tools, focusing primarily on human genome data."	BIOL	3	BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 318	Vertebrate Physiology	"Examines the relationship between structure and function in the vertebrate body, starting at the level of molecules and cells, and moving through tissues, organs, and organ systems. Major topics include the endocrine, nervous, and cardiovascular systems; digestive physiology; and water, salt, pH balance in the body and the effects of global climate change on vertebrate physiology."	BIOL	3	(BIOL 181 or BIOL 211) and (BIOL 182 or BIOL 212)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 318L	Vertebrate Physiology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 318. Includes hypothesis-guided experiments with quantitative analysis of data.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 320	Biostatistics	"This course explores issues of experimental design, data collection, parameter estimation, and hypothesis testing as they apply to the life sciences. Topics include samples and populations, tests for goodness of fit of frequency data to those expected on the basis of theory, hypotheses about samples drawn from normally distributed populations, the binomial and Poisson distributions, analyses of variance, correlation analysis, linear regression analysis, and elementary statistical modeling. Students learn computer software applications for the analysis and graphing of data. Course material is beneficial to students planning to do research."	BIOL	3	(BIOL 181 or BIOL 211) or (BIOL 182 or BIOL 212)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	The course should count as one of the two courses required in mathematics for students interested in the health science professions or graduate school in the sciences.
BIOL 320L	Biostatistics Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 320. Students apply principles learned in lecture using computer software in realistic situations.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 330	Conservation Biology	"The widespread loss of species and concerns over how to maintain maximum genetic variability in populations are at the heart of this course. Topics include biological diversity, its measurement, and differences in diversity among habitats. The course also considers threats to biological diversity such as habitat loss, exotic species introductions, pollution, and catastrophic events. This information is used to consider various conservation strategies and sustainable development. Students take a global perspective in this course and consider how globalization affects biodiversity directly and indirectly."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206	Global Engagements	Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 332	Tropical Ecology	Addresses tropical ecology starting with the discoveries and theories of early explorers to modern theories of biogeography of species richness. Students also learn about the human impacts on tropical diversity and the sustainability of tropical ecosystems. Students use seminal papers as readings and discuss questions that are still debated by tropical ecologists: Why are the tropics so diverse? How is this diversity maintained? How do communities respond to disturbance? And how does global warming affect communities and species richness? Students design experiments and write proposals on field projects that are executed during the extended study portion of the course.	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206	Global Engagements	Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 332E	Tropical Ecology Extend Study	"A three-week trip to Costa Rica, Central America, where students visit tropical lowland rainforest, montane cloud forest, and lowland dry forest, and visit a mangrove swamp, secondary forest, and high elevation tropical bog. In each study site students conduct the research studies proposed and decided on during the lecture course. The extended study includes rigorous field work, individual and group projects, research reports, and presentations--all with the backdrop of the forest."	BIOL	2	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206			
BIOL 335	Limnology	"Introduction to freshwater ecology, including the study of the effects of physical, chemical, and geographical factors on the structure and function of freshwater lakes and streams. The effects of human activities on water quality are also examined. There are field trips to local lakes and streams."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 335L	Limnology Lab	"Required corequisite to BIOL 335. Laboratories develop skills in water chemistry; sampling, identification, and quantification of algae, aquatic plants, and animals; and the quantitative presentation of data."	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 337	Cancer Biology	"Provides students with knowledge of the fundamental principles of the molecular and cellular biology of cancer cells. Focuses on understanding how changes in the normal growth and division processes lead to human cancer. Highlights multiple areas of cancer biology including the nature of cancer, signals in tumor cells, oncogenes, tumor suppressors, cancer-causing viruses, unregulated cell proliferation, DNA damage, epigenetics, apoptosis, angiogenesis, metastasis, and current therapeutic approaches to cancer treatment."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 340	Marine Biology	"Provides students with a comprehensive analysis of marine ecological processes and in-depth examination of the biology of marine organisms. Broad ecological concepts are emphasized in a survey of marine habitats ranging from the intertidal rocky shore to deep sea hydrothermal vents. The diversity of marine organisms is considered in the context of their physical and chemical environments, and their interspecific interactions. In addition, students deliberate on specific ways in which humans impact the marine environment."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206 or GEOL 135		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 341	Animal Behavior	"Explores behavior patterns of both invertebrate and vertebrates with emphasis upon their ontogeny, evolution, and adaptive significance. Lecture topics include social organization, communication and sensory systems, molecular mechanisms behavior, and mating behavior. Laboratory exercises include observational and experimental studies of the behavior of diverse species."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 341E	"Cognition, Behavior and Conservation of Marine Mammals (Extended Study)"	"This extended study course to the Florida Keys focuses on current theories, research, and methods in behavioral and cognitive studies of marine mammals, with an emphasis on bottle-nosed dolphins. Because animal behavioral research and conservation are intimately linked, the course also considers conservation issues relevant to marine organisms and their environment. The course includes hands-on and interactive experiences with the resident pod of dolphins at the Dolphin Research Center, as well as classroom seminars and workshops, live marine mammal demonstrations and observations, and discussions with expert trainers, researchers, and educators."	BIOL	2	BIOL 341 or NEUR 385 or BIOL 385 or PSYC 385			
BIOL 341L	Animal Behavior Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 341.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 350	Biophysics	"An introduction to biological physics including a survey of topics such as diffusion, Brownian motion, non-Newtonian fluids, self-assembly, cooperativity, bioenergetics, and nerve impulses, as well as experimental techniques and analytical approaches. Students first develop the interdisciplinary knowledge needed to address biophysical questions. The course then focuses on the reading, presentation, and critique of current biophysics research literature. Although challenging in its breadth, this course is intended to be accessible to juniors and seniors majoring in physics, chemistry, or biology."	BIOL	3	(MATH 111 or MATH 161) and (PHYS 111 or PHYS 112 or PHYS 131 or PHYS 232 or PHYS 233) with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 351	Topics in Advanced Cellular Physiology: Diseases of Nervous System	"The physiology of a cell is determined by a complex set of interactions between a large number of proteins. Cells, whether they are unicellular organisms or individual parts of a multicellular organism, need to respond to changing conditions. Students examine particular aspects of cellular physiology from the molecular, cellular, or biochemical perspective. The topic addressed will vary by semester and will utilize the current scientific literature to address questions raised by the topic."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 355	Advanced Topics in Organismal Biology	"Over the past few decades there has been increasing focus on multicellular organisms at the level of expression of genomes and interactions within and among cells. Recent advances in integration of scientific perspectives from across disciplines are leading to a renewed holistic approach to the study of organismal biology. In this course, the roles of organisms in environments, their functional and behavioral diversity, their evolutionary history, and their representation of physical and living systems are explored through historical and recent literature, case studies, and consideration of how the current growth in integrative science influences our understanding of organismal ecology and evolution. Different groups of organisms are used to illustrate the history, current state of understanding, and emerging principles in the study of whole organisms."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 355L	Advanced Topics in Organismal Biology Lab: Ornithology Lab	Corequisite to BIOL 355	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 356	Developmental Biology	"Examines fundamental processes in animal and plant development, including fertilization, the establishment of embryonic polarity, the determination of cell fate in the early embryo, and the mechanisms by which cells generate the specific organizational pattern of a developing embryo. Additionally, potential medical applications resulting from the study of developmental biology are considered. Emphasis is on understanding experimental systems (including sea urchins, fruit flies, frogs, and mice) and approaches (molecular genetics, biochemistry, and classical embryonic manipulations)."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 356L	Developmental Biology Lab	"Explores ancient texts that articulate perennial issues, such as the nature of the human and the divine; virtue and the good life; the true, the just, and the beautiful; the difference between subjective opinion and objective knowledge. These texts exemplify basic modes of speech, literary forms, and patterns of thinking that establish the terminology of academic and intellectual discourse and critical thought across many different societies: epic, rhetoric, tragedy, poetry, epistemology, science, democracy, rationality, the soul, spirit, law, grace. Such terms have shaped the patterns of life, norms, and prejudices that human communities have continually challenged, criticized, and refashioned throughout history. To highlight both the dialogue and conflicts between the texts and the traditions they embody, this course, taught by a multidisciplinary staff and in an interdisciplinary manner, focuses on both the historical contexts of these texts and the ongoing retellings and reinterpretations of them through time. The course includes texts from the ancient Mediterranean world that have given rise to some of the philosophical, political, religious, and artistic traditions associated with “The West,” emphasizing that Western traditions were not formed in a vacuum but developed in dialogue and conflict with other traditions. Common to all sections of this component are classic works such as Homer, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, Plato, and a Roman text. Complementary texts or visual materials from the ancient period, in and beyond the Western world, and/or response texts from the medieval or contemporary periods are added by faculty in individual sections."	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 359	Ecosystem Ecology	"Ecosystem ecology is the study of both the organisms (biotic) and the environment (abiotic) as an integrated system and the processes that link them: energy transformations and biogeochemical cycling. Emphasizing plant systems, the course introduces students to fundamental ecosystem processes such as primary productivity, decomposition, nutrient cycling, plant-soil interactions, and energy balance. Students also study the major element cycles (carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus) and how these vary among ecosystems as different as the arctic tundra and tropical rainforest. An important theme of the course is the relationship between ecosystem processes and pressing global environmental issues such as global warming, biodiversity loss, and rising carbon dioxide levels."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 359L	Ecosystem Ecology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 359.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 361	Biochemistry of Gene Expression	"Provides students with an in-depth study of biological processes at the molecular level, focusing on topics such as the regulation of transcription, RNA processing, translation, DNA replication and recombination. Emphasis is on critical reading of the scientific literature and examining current experiments that lead us to our understanding of molecular processes."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206 Biochemistry majors require only BIOL 182 and should contact the instructor before registration.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 373	Virology	"Viruses infect every organism and are a fundamental driver of biologic processes. This course is an in-depth examination of the biology of viruses, focused on general virus replication strategies; specific viruses and their impacts on human health; and specialized topics in virology, including cancer virology, vaccines, and the use of viral vectors in biotechnology. Critical reading of the primary virological literature is an important element of the course."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 373L	Virology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 373. This laboratory introduces students to basic methodology involved in virology research while conducting novel experiments to investigate virus-cell interactions.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 374	Immunology	"Provides an investigation of the molecular and cellular components of the vertebrate immune system, emphasizing human immunology. Investigates the general principles that govern different components of the immune system and integrates those principles to develop a broad understanding of immune function. Topics include the generation of immunologic memory, consequences of immune system malfunction, manipulation of the immune system to positively impact human health, and methods that facilitate investigation of new questions about immune system function."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 375	Advanced Genetics	"Provides students an in-depth study of modern genetics, focusing on topics that may include quantitative genetics, molecular genetics, medical genetics, conservation genetics or the applications of technology in genetics. Emphasis is on critical reading of the scientific literature and examining current experiments that lead us to our understanding of these topics. When offered, BIOL 375L is a required corequisite."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 384	Fundamentals of Neurophysiology	"This seminar and laboratory course examines the physiology of the nervous system. Topics include ion channel structure and function, synaptic transmission, second messenger systems, neuromodulation, the neurophysiological basis of behavior in ""simple"" animals, the evolution of neural circuits, the cellular basis of learning and memory, and the cellular basis of selected human nervous system diseases."	BIOL	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 275 or BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 385	Neuroethology	"Neuroethology is a sub-field of neuroscience focused on the study of the neural basis of natural behavior. Many types of behavior and a wide array of animals are studied, and the approach is often comparative and evolutionary. Students delve into the neuroethological literature, examining the neural basis of animal communication, navigation, movement, sensory processing, feeding, aggression, and learning."	BIOL	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 275 or BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 309 or BIOL 320 (formerly BIOL 220) is recommended.
BIOL 385L	Neuroethology Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 385. Laboratory exercises teach methods of behavioral analysis and electrophysiological recording techniques.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 389	Molecular Neurobiology	"Examines the cell biology behind the functioning of the nervous system. Students explore how cells make fate decisions during neural development, how neurons elaborate the complex structures they take on, how they form and refine specific connections, and how these together allow the precise transmissions of complex signals. Students also examine the molecular pathways by which sensory systems transduce physical stimuli into electrochemical signals and integrate that information into the nervous system."	BIOL	3	BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 407	Biology of Stem Cells	"Multi-cellular plants and animals develop from totipotent stem cells that are capable of making every cell type within the organism and also preserving the information needed to make additional generations. In addition, stem cells within the body contribute cells to organs throughout life and can in many cases regenerate large amounts of tissue following damage. This course examines the biology behind stem cells, both embryonic and adult cells in plants and animals, focusing on the genes and pathways that make stem cells unique in their proliferative and differentiating capacity. Additionally, this course explores the basis for regeneration, including both stem cells and cellular dedifferentiation, and examines what may limit regeneration in certain systems where it does not occur. It also explores what happens when tight control over cell proliferation and differentiation is disrupted, leading to cancer."	BIOL	3	BIOL 201 or BIOL 202 or BIOL 203 or BIOL 204 or BIOL 205 or BIOL 206		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 407L	Biology of Stem Cells Lab	Required corequisite to BIOL 407.	BIOL	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 474	Global Health Epidemiology	"This research tutorial provides students the opportunity to plan, conduct, and present original research in the area of global health and infectious disease epidemiology. Projects involve investigations in the field, laboratory, and/or data analysis. Potential topics for projects include mapping neglected tropical disease (specifically soil transmitted helminths parasite), and their impact on maternal and child health. In addition the role of H. pylori infection in extra-gastroduodenal diseases in general, in child growth development, anemia and allergic disorders in particular will be investigated in this research tutorial laboratory."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 475	Molecular Analysis of Development	"This research tutorial investigates the molecular mechanisms that regulate development in the nematode C. elegans. With the help of the instructor, students design and implement experiments that utilize genetic, molecular, and microscopic techniques to understand how small RNAs, called microRNAs, and the proteins that control their expression regulate development."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 476	"Investigations in Biodiversity, Community, and Ecosystem Ecology"	"Research in the lab centers on the causes of species richness patterns and how perturbations (climate change) affect those patterns. Research projects often apply the lens of climate change (e.g., biodiversity loss, global warming, increased carbon dioxide, pollution) and test explicit hypotheses on plant, community, and ecosystem responses (i.e., N deposition, fire frequency) to perturbations. Students have the opportunity to use cutting-edge laboratory, computer, and field-based methods (e.g., mass spectrometry, ecophylogenetics, carbon dioxide flux) to address these questions."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 477	Molecular Control of Neural Development	"This research tutorial explores the molecular and cellular basis of the development and growth of the nervous system. With the guidance of the instructor, students design and carry out an experimental plan that applies techniques from molecular biology and cell biology to open questions in developmental neurobiology. Potential topics include signaling pathways that control neural stem cells, neural plasticity, and control of regeneration following damage."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 478	"Animal Systematics, Phylogeny, and Diversity"	"This research tutorial exposes students to the theory and practice of systematics and their application to the study of animal ecology, evolution and diversity. Topics include population genetics of marine and terrestrial invertebrates, biogeography of deep-sea hot vent animals, the spread of invasive species, and the biodiversity of threatened ecosystems. In the laboratory, students pursue independent research projects using molecular techniques, and phylogenetic analytical methods."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 479	Investigations in Evolutionary Ecology	"Evolutionary ecology is the study of how ecological interactions among organisms (e.g., pollination, predation, competition, etc.) influence evolutionary change. With the guidance of the instructor, individual students or small teams test novel hypotheses in evolutionary ecology using field and/or laboratory research methods. Projects usually fall under the umbrella of plant-animal interactions, evolutionary genetics, the maintenance of variation in natural populations, or disease ecology."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 480	Cell Cycle Regulation	"In a normal eukaryotic cell cycle, the chromosomal DNA and the centrosome of a cell are replicated once, and only once, during S phase to ensure that each daughter cell receives exactly one complement of genomic material and centrosomes. In this research tutorial, students use cellular and molecular techniques to understand the mechanisms underlying this complex phenomenon. Specifically, they investigate mechanisms through which transcription factors regulate genomic stability, normal centrosome duplication, cellular senescence, autophagy, and DNA repair."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 481	Modeling of Biological Systems	"Quantitative techniques have become a crucial tool in recent years for analyzing biological systems, a field which has been flooded with highly detailed experimental data due to new advanced data acquisition techniques in the biological sciences. This interdisciplinary research tutorial explores the analysis of biological systems using quantitative approaches such as mathematical modeling, statistical learning, and computer programming. With the guidance of the instructor, students choose a biological problem of their interest and analyze it using quantitative techniques. The research topics include (but are not limited to) gene regulation, disease networks, and cell cycle regulation."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 482	Adaptation to Environment	"This laboratory-based, research-oriented course examines the molecular and cellular mechanisms that enable animals to withstand a variety of environmental conditions. Students design, implement, and report on their own original research using various approaches, from classical physiology and biochemistry to modern molecular biology."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 483	Investigating the Microbiome	"Microorganisms, including both prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes, can be found in nearly every environment on earth, from oceans to soils and from plant roots to the mammalian gut. The ""microbiome"" describes the total of all of the microbes (and their genes) found within a particular environment, and the composition and activity of the microbiome contributes greatly to the health and function of that environment. Students examine the composition of specific microbiomes to better understand the function of microbial communities and how the environment can impact their composition and activity. Students use molecular techniques and bioinformatics to identify the microorganisms found in an environment and to explore the function of the microbes within the microbiome."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 484	Cell Responses-Viral Infect	"This research tutorial examines the mechanism and regulation of cellular gene expression in response to infection by mammalian reovirus. Students address these questions by conducting independent laboratory research projects using biochemical, molecular biological, and cell biological approaches."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 485	Experimental Animal Behavior	"This research tutorial explores issues, methodology, and experimental designs in fields associated with animal and human behavior including molecular ecology, behavioral ecology, conservation biology, and behavioral genetics of social insects and humans. Research can involve both field and laboratory work."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 486	Eukaryotic Molec Genetics	"This research tutorial allows students to learn a variety of molecular genetic and bioinformatic techniques to address questions of how genetic variation affects function in eukaryotic organisms. With the guidance of the instructor, students design projects to address questions on genetic effects on behavior and body form in dogs or on gene expression."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 487	Advanced Aquatic Ecology	"Provides students with an opportunity to do research in freshwater ecology. Projects are field- or laboratory-oriented investigations of either stream or lake ecology and often require a group effort. In conversation with the instructor, the student designs a study that is of mutual interest to the student and faculty member. Past projects have involved predator-prey relations or competition among stream insects, role of bank-side vegetation in influencing stream macroinvertebrate communities, bacterial/algal interactions in streams, nutrient limitation of algae, effects of insect grazers on stream algae, or the impact of acid deposition on both the structure and function of streams."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 488	Investigations in Terrestrial Ecology	"This research tutorial provides students the opportunity to plan, conduct, and present original research in terrestrial ecology. Projects involve investigations in the field, laboratory, or both. Students focus on a particular species or group of species according to interest and feasibility. Potential topics for projects include invasive species, acid deposition, and competition among similar species. Emphasis is placed on the application of ecological, behavioral, and physiological principles to understanding the abundance and distribution of species in real landscapes."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 489	Research in Plant Physiological Ecology	"This research tutorial uses plants to investigate the relationships between internal events (physiology) and external events (ecology) by combining current readings from the primary scientific literature with laboratory and field experiments. Topics include energetics, reproductive strategies, and seed dormancy and germination. The goal is completion of a project suitable for publication in a scientific journal. Students learn how to search literature, critique articles, design experiments, collect and analyze data, and present information in manuscript form to submit for publication."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 491	Ind:Lpd Memb Comp Oixdat Stres	"Opportunity for individual study in areas not covered by formal course offerings, under the guidance of a member of the faculty."	BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 591	Ecology		BIOL	3				
BIOL 591L	Ecology Lab		BIOL	1				
BIOL 592	Biostatistics		BIOL	3				
BIOL 592L	Biostatistics Lab		BIOL	1				
BIOL 593	Vertebrate Physiology		BIOL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
BIOL 593L	Vertebrate Physiology Lab		BIOL	1				
CHEM 100	The Chemistry of Altered and Natural Environments	"An introduction to chemical principles as they are applied to environmental issues. Students learn the chemistry behind some of the most pressing modern environmental challenges and how chemistry has been used to address past problems. Topics covered include air and water chemistry, as well as energy production and climate. Designed for students interested in environmental science and environmental studies. There is no prior chemical knowledge expected and there are no prerequisites. Not part of, and cannot be taken after, the CHEM 101/102 sequence of general chemistry."	CHEM	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 101	General Chemistry I	"The first half of a two-term sequence that introduces chemical principles that apply to all areas of chemistry. This course deals with molecular and reaction stoichiometry, gases, the first law of thermodynamics, the electronic structure of atoms, the periodic table, chemical bonding, and molecular geometry."	CHEM	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 101L	General Chemistry I Lab	Required corequisite to CHEM 101.	CHEM	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 102	General Chemistry II	"The second half of a two-term sequence that introduces principles applicable to all areas of chemistry. Covers condensed phases, chemical kinetics, equilibria, acids and bases, electrochemistry, the second law of thermodynamics, free energy, and the spontaneous evolution of chemical systems. Additional topics may include nuclear chemistry and transition-metal complexes."	CHEM	3	CHEM 101 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 102L	General Chemistry II Lab	Required corequisite to CHEM 102.	CHEM	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 111	Chemical Principles	"A one-term course designed for the well-prepared first-year student. CHEM 111 covers many of the same fundamentals covered in CHEM 101 and 102, but treats those ideas in greater depth. Enrollment requires a score of 4 or 5 on the AP exam, an A or B on A-level exam in chemistry, a score of 6 or 7 on the higher level IB chemistry exam, or a 650 or higher on the SAT II Chemistry Exam. Students enrolled in CHEM 111 who meet the standards by the AP exam may receive only one advanced placement credit for general chemistry. CHEM 111 (or CHEM 101-102) serves as a prerequisite for CHEM 263, 264 (Organic Chemistry), or CHEM 333, 334 (Physical Chemistry)."	CHEM	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 111L	Chemical Principles Lab	Required corequisite to CHEM 111.	CHEM	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 212	Inorganic Chemistry	"An introduction to structure, bonding, and reactivity across the periodic table. The course begins by comparing the valence-bond and molecular-orbital models of bonding for small covalent compounds. Then, the solid state is explored, focusing on how bonding in ionic compounds, metals, and network-covalent compounds affects their behavior as materials. Additional topics include bonding in transition-metal complexes, reactivity in solution, and the use of physical methods such as spectroscopy and crystallography to elucidate elements of structure and reactivity."	CHEM	3	CHEM 111 or CHEM 102 (102 may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 212L	Inorganic Chemistry Lab	Required corequisite to CHEM 212.	CHEM	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 214	Inorganic Chemistry	"An introduction to structure, bonding, and reactivity across the periodic table. The course begins by comparing the valence-bond and molecular-orbital models of bonding for small covalent compounds. Then, the solid state is explored, focusing on how bonding in ionic compounds, metals, and network-covalent compounds affects their behavior as materials. Additional topics include bonding in transition-metal complexes, reactivity in solution, and the use of physical methods such as spectroscopy and crystallography to elucidate elements of structure and reactivity."	CHEM	3	CHEM 102 or CHEM 111		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 263	Organic Chemistry I	"Structure, bonding, and properties of organic molecules; reactivity of organic molecules as exemplified by substitution and elimination reactions involving alkyl halides, alcohols, ethers and related functional groups, and addition reactions of alkenes and alkynes, including addition polymers; and characterization of organic molecules by spectroscopy."	CHEM	3	CHEM 102 or CHEM 111 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 263L	Organic Chemistry I Lab	"Required corequisite to CHEM 263. This laboratory affords hands-on experience in the synthesis, purification, and characterization of representative organic compounds using modern analytical instrumentation."	CHEM	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 264	Organic Chemistry II	"Further study of structure, bonding, properties, and reactivity of organic molecules extended to conjugated molecules, aromatic compounds, carbonyl containing functional groups, and amines; application of a knowledge of organic reactivity to the planning of synthesis of organic compounds, including condensation polymers; characterization of organic molecules by spectroscopy; and consideration of biologically relevant organic molecules such as carbohydrates, amino acids, proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids."	CHEM	3	CHEM 263 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 264L	Organic Chemistry II Lab	"Required corequisite to CHEM 264. This laboratory affords hands-on experience in the synthesis, purification, and characterization of representative organic compounds. Students are also exposed to the use of modern analytical instrumentation."	CHEM	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 333	Physical Chemistry I	"Introduction to quantum mechanics, fundamentals of chemical bonding, spectroscopy and methods of molecular structure determination, statistical thermodynamics, and miscellaneous topics."	CHEM	3	(CHEM 102 or CHEM 111) and (PHYS 111 or PHYS 232) and (MATH 112 or MATH 162) (PHYS 111 may be taken concurrently with instructor permission)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 334	Physical Chemistry II	"Fundamentals of physical chemistry, particularly those most commonly applied in related fields such as organic, biological, and geological chemistry: classical thermodynamics of ideal and real systems, electrochemistry, and chemical kinetics."	CHEM	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 336	Physical Chemistry for the Life Sciences	"This physical chemistry course is designed for students interested in majoring in biochemistry or biology. The topics discussed include thermodynamics, chemical kinetics, electrochemistry, quantum chemistry, chemical bonding, and spectroscopy. The course introduces the basic concepts of physical chemistry within the context of biological systems and emphasizes how physical chemistry provides insight into modern biochemical and biological problems."	CHEM	3	CHEM 264 and (PHYS 112 or PHYS 121 or PHYS 232) and (MATH 112 or MATH 162)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 353	Proteins and Nucleic Acids	"A survey of biological polymers and of the physical and chemical methods of biopolymer research. Focuses on amino acids; protein structure; the function of proteins as cell structural materials and catalysts; and the structure, function, and chemistry of nucleic acids."	CHEM	3	CHEM 264		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 371	Instrumental Methods	"An introduction to the theory, practice, and applications of modern instrumental methods of chemical analysis. The theoretical background and principles of operation of modern chemical research instrumentation are examined."	CHEM	3	CHEM 263 (may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 381	Practical Quantitative Analysis	"This half-semester integrated laboratory course involves experiments that emphasize the calibration, operation, and application of analytical instruments to real-world samples. Students solve quantitative problems from the fields of food, environmental, and medicinal chemistry."	CHEM	1	CHEM 371 (encouraged to be taken concurrently)			
CHEM 382	Molecular Spectroscopy	"This half-semester laboratory-based course explores the relationship between a molecule's structure and its discrete energy levels. Students measure these energy levels through a variety of spectroscopies including infrared absorption, ultraviolet-visible absorption, fluorescence, Raman scattering, and NMR."	CHEM	1	CHEM 333 or CHEM 336			
CHEM 384	Molecular Dynamics	"This half-semester laboratory-based course explores the effect of molecular motion and intermolecular forces on both the microscopic and bulk properties of matters. The topics investigated include viscosity, surface tension, isomerization kinetics, and relaxation phenomena."	CHEM	1	CHEM 334 or CHEM 336 (may be taken concurrently)			
CHEM 385	Biophysical Chemistry Methods	"This half-semester integrated laboratory course is designed to be an introduction to modern methods of biophysical chemistry and a bridge to independent research in biological chemistry. This course includes techniques of protein purification from heterologous overexpression or natural sources. This course also focuses on modern methods of protein characterization, including electrophoresis, spectroscopy, enzyme kinetics, dynamic light scattering, and/or X-ray crystallography."	CHEM	1	CHEM 264			
CHEM 387	Special Topics: Structure and Analysis	"This half-semester integrated laboratory course offers an in-depth study of quantitative and structural analysis. Students complete an independent project employing techniques that may include advanced NMR (selective decoupling, variable-temperature, NOESY), mass spectrometry including MALDI and MS/MS, chromatographic separations, and small molecule X-ray crystallography."	CHEM	1	CHEM 264 (may be taken concurrently by permission)			
CHEM 413	Molecular Symmetry	"This half-semester course provides an introduction to the use of group theory to describe the symmetry of molecules, and to aid in understanding their structure, bonding, and spectroscopy. The focus is on small molecules in the main group and transition-metal complexes."	CHEM	2	CHEM 212 or CHEM 214			
CHEM 415	Organometallic Chemistry	"This half-semester course is a survey of the organometallic chemistry of the transition elements, focusing on synthesis, bonding, structure, elementary reactions, and application to homogenous catalysis."	CHEM	2	(CHEM 212 or CHEM 214) and CHEM 264			
CHEM 431	Molecular Modeling and Simulation	"This half-semester course introduces modern simulation techniques in computational chemistry, including ab initio calculations and molecular dynamics simulations. Students learn the underlying theory of these methods at a basic level while getting hands-on experience studying chemical systems of their choice, from isolated molecules to aqueous biomolecules."	CHEM	2	CHEM 333 or CHEM 336			
CHEM 440	Materials Chemistry	"This half-semester course builds on the foundational background of solid materials from general and inorganic chemistry with a thorough description of the structure and properties of extended solids, surfaces, and nano-materials. Students will cover synthetic and physical techniques used to prepare and characterize solids and the properties that make solid materials useful. Students will consider the bonding and electronic, magnetic, and optical properties of solids in detail. Students will focus on materials with signi?cant societal importance, including materials for renewable energy, energy storage, and for creating a sustainable society."	CHEM	2	CHEM 263		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
CHEM 452	Metabolic Chemistry	"This half-semester course is dedicated to exploring the chemical themes and mechanisms of biological metabolism. Specifically, the metabolism of lipids, carbohydrates, amino acids, and nucleotides is investigated."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 454	Bioenergetics	"This half-semester biochemistry course covers the energy processes in living systems. The major focus of the course is mammalian biochemistry and cellular respiration in the mitochondria, but bacterial biochemistry and photosynthesis are also discussed."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 456	Bioinorganic Chemistry	"This half-semester course provides an introduction to the field of bioinorganic chemistry, a discipline at the interface of chemistry and biology. Topics and theoretical principles from coordination chemistry are applied to the study of metallo-enzymes and other systems involving metal ions. Emphasis is placed on mechanisms and structures in which metals play an essential role. Biological oxidation, nitrogen fixation, photosynthesis, DNA-metal complexes, organolead compounds are a few of the topics discusses in an effort to unify knowledge from classical sub-disciplines (inorganic and organic chemistry, biochemistry) into a picture in which students attempt to identify the paradigms in the mechanisms of life processes."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 461	Organic Reaction Mechanisms	"In this half-semester course, a detailed study of organic reaction mechanisms is presented. Key mechanistic pathways are examined. Proposal of plausible mechanisms for organic reactions, experiments used to gain insight into reaction mechanisms, and the importance of mechanistic insight toward the practical application of organic reactions are considered. Classic organic reactions as well as recent examples from the primary literature are discussed."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 464	Organic Synthesis	"In this half-semester course, a detailed study of the synthesis of organic compounds is presented. Particular attention is given to functional group compatibility, diastereoselectivity and enantioselectivity, recent developments in organic reactions, as well as reaction catalysis. The primary literature is examined with an eye to better understand the design of the synthetic approach."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 468	Medicinal Chemistry	"In this half-semester course, the basic principles of the drug discovery process are explored. Topics include traditional and novel approaches, mode of action, quantitative structure activity relationships, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and inactivation of medicinal agents. In addition, major drug classes are presented along with specific case studies for each category."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 468Z	Indp: Medicinal Chemistry		CHEM	2				
CHEM 477	Environmental Chemistry	"This half-semester course uses a firm grounding in chemistry to seek answers to the complex environmental questions faced by modern society. Students use the scientific literature, public data sets, chemical modeling, and/or field or laboratory experiments to explore a topic of interest such as energy production, pollution or natural cycles and their anthropogenic perturbations."	CHEM	2	CHEM 264			
CHEM 481	Advanced Chemistry Research	"Original research projects designed for student collaboration with faculty members to build on and consolidate the previous experiences in research, project design, use of modern instrumentation for data acquisition and analysis, problem solution, and oral and written communication of results. A minimum of eight hours of laboratory work per week is required."	CHEM	2				
CHEM 482	Advanced Chemistry Research	"Original research projects designed for student collaboration with faculty members to build on and consolidate the previous experiences in research, project design, use of modern instrumentation for data acquisition and analysis, problem solution, and oral and written communication of results. A minimum of eight hours of laboratory work per week is required."	CHEM	2				
CHIN 121	Elementary Chinese I	"This introduction to modern standard Chinese emphasizes understanding and speaking, with practice in reading and writing approximately 300 characters in either traditional or simplified forms. It covers basic structural patterns and vocabulary needed for ordinary conversation as well as future development."	EALL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 122	Elementary Chinese II	"This introduction to modern standard Chinese emphasizes understanding and speaking, with practice in reading and writing approximately 300 characters in either traditional or simplified forms. It covers basic structural patterns and vocabulary needed for ordinary conversation as well as future development."	EALL	3	CHIN 121	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 201	Intermediate Chinese I	"Offers continued training in Modern Standard Chinese, with emphasis on reading and writing skills. Grammar review is combined with introduction to variations in speech and writing. Recitation and conversation sessions, role-play, and skits reinforce listening and speaking ability. By the end of the year, students may expect to communicate in both speech and writing on everyday topics."	EALL	3	CHIN 122 or equivalent experience	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 202	Intermediate Chinese II	"Offers continued training in Modern Standard Chinese, with emphasis on reading and writing skills. Grammar review is combined with introduction to variations in speech and writing. Recitation and conversation sessions, role-play, and skits reinforce listening and speaking ability. By the end of the year, students may expect to communicate in both speech and writing on everyday topics."	EALL	3	CHIN 201	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 222	China through Literature and Film	"Offers an introduction to representative works of Chinese literature in English translation, as well as works of Chinese film with English subtitles. Specific focus and selections vary from year to year. Readings can include novels, short stories, poetry, and drama from the traditional and modern periods. Films, whether live-action, animated, or documentary, illuminates their historical periods and cultural contexts. No knowledge of Chinese is expected."	EALL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 222L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to CHIN 222.	EALL	0			Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 299	Chinese Medical Culture	"Chinese medicine as a full-bodied version (not a part) of Chinese culture was first recorded in The Yellow Emperor's Inner Classic dating back to the 5th century BC. Interrelating astronomy, cosmology, nature-human correspondence, seasonal climates' impact on health, lifestyle adjustments, acupuncture, herbs, medical ethics and other topics, this text remains the cornerstone of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) today. The book's broad and inter-defining perspectives set the tones for Chinese medical culture as a whole, further innovated throughout the ages up to the present day in and beyond China including our own New York State through the practice, teaching, and research of acupuncture. This interdisciplinary course deals with the Chinese understanding of nature (including human), the body, and well-being through engaging with scholarly materials and through qigong, food, tea, and other practicable activities. Students write a paper, do a qigong performance, and cook a healthful dish each for a final interactive learning session. Taught in English with no prerequisites, all students welcome."	EALL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 299X	Chinese Medical Culture/FLAC		EALL	0				
CHIN 303	Films and Media	"By focusing on film, this course increases students' fluency in all aspects of Chinese language. Students improve listening and speaking skills through viewing and discussion of materials that can range from film and television shows to online videos and podcasts; they improve reading, writing, and narration skills through work with written scripts. Through discussion and essay assignments, they learn to express personal responses, thoughts, and feelings."	EALL	3	CHIN 202 or equivalent experience	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 304	Readings in Social Issues	"Through readings on developments in contemporary Chinese society, this course introduces students to the vocabulary and sentence structures specific to written Chinese. Exercises accompanying the readings and essay assignments help develop writing skills. The topics presented in the essays, such as women's issues, economics, family, and trends in popular culture, provide rich material for class discussion and improve the students' speaking, listening, and narration skills."	EALL	3	CHIN 202 or equivalent experience		Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 405	Reading Chinese Newspapers	"Introduces the styles and conventions of Chinese newspaper language. Emphasis is on vocabulary expansion, forms, and structures that differ from everyday spoken Chinese, and tactics and skills for rapid reading. Aural-oral skills are reinforced through classroom discussions and supplementary materials."	EALL	3	CHIN 304 or CHIN 303 or equivalent experience		Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 406	Readings in Modern Literature	"Designed to expand and consolidate students' aural and oral mastery of advanced vocabulary and grammatical patterns through the study of modern Chinese writers and their work. All readings are original works of literature (poetry, short fiction, familiar prose) written for Chinese readers. Conversation sessions take on contemporary topics ranging from the modern Chinese family to women's issues, economic changes, and the urban experience."	EALL	3	CHIN 303 or CHIN 304 or equivalent experience		Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 406Z	Indp: Readings in Modern Lit		EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 450	Adv Readings in Chinese Wrldvw	"A language-based content course. Departing from mythology and folklore and branching out into Chinese classics, this course deals with fundamental views in Chinese regarding the world, humankind, and their mutual relations."	EALL	3	CHIN 405	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CHIN 499	Honors	Students pursuing honors research enroll in this course.	EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 208	Lost Languages & Decipherments	"An overview of the advent and evolution of writing focusing on modern decipherments of ancient texts. Related topics include characteristics of the world's major language families, the nature of linguistic change, and the origin and history of the alphabet."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 208X	Lost Languages-FLAC/Anct Langs		CLAS	0				
CLAS 220	Drama and the Greeks!	"Explores the dramatic challenge of producing a Greek tragedy. Students focus on a Greek play of global impact, one that is performed all over the world today in a variety of different cultural and social contexts. Students begin with an introductory segment that explores what is distinctive about Greek tragedy and has made it a central part of an increasingly complex theatrical canon. The course concludes with students working in groups to experiment with and stage their own interpretations of scenes from the play."	CLAS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 220L	Drama and the Greeks! Lab	Required corequisite to CLAS 220.	CLAS	0			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 221	The Epic Voice and Its Echoes	"Beginning with the first poems in the Western tradition, this course studies the epic genre in all its distinctiveness and variety. It explores the themes and ideology of epic, ranging from the heroic to the philosophical and didactic, and considers how the poet deals with fundamental questions: the nature of heroism, life and death, individual and community, mortals and immortals, memory, and the power of poetry. It also examines the craft of the epic poet, uniquely situated between orality and writing. Authors studied include Homer, Hesiod, Apollonius, Lucretius, and Vergil."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 222	The Tragic and Comic Muse	"Examines selected plays of the three great tragedians—Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides—and of the comedian Aristophanes. Focuses on the tragic account of human nature and its relationship to the gods, but considers as well comedy's response to that account. Other topics for discussion include the role of Athenian politics, religion, and sociology within the plays and the importance of the classical stage in Athenian life."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 223	Sports and Spectacles in Ancient Greece and Rome	"The Olympic Games, gladiators, chariot racing: the sports and spectacles of ancient Greece and Rome still loom large in the modern imagination. The summer and winter Olympic and Paralympic games, for example, are staged at cities across the globe every four years, and NFL football players are routinely called ""modern-day gladiators"" and compete in annual Super Bowls designated by Roman Numerals. This course provides an interdisciplinary examination of the history and nature of sports and spectacles in the Greco­Roman World, from the legendary foundation of the Olympic Games in 776 BCE to the violent spectacles of the Roman Empire, and it compares the role of sports in Classical Antiquity to the position they now occupy in contemporary society, with special focus on the revival of the Olympic Games in 1896 and the rise of televised, spectator sports in the 20th century."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 224	The Age of Augustus	"An introduction to the literature and culture of the Augustan Age, that period of Roman history in which the empire was established and many of its best-known artists flourished. Readings include selections from and works by the poets Lucretius, Horace, Vergil, Propertius, Ovid, and Lucan, by the historians Livy and Tacitus, and by the ""novelist"" Petronius."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 226	From Cyrus the Great to Alexander the Great: The Persian Empire and the Greeks	"When the Achaemenid Persian king Darius attacked Greek lands in 490 BCE, the empire over which he ruled was the largest the world had ever seen: it stretched from the Danube River to the Indus, from the Red to Aral Seas. In its territorial extent, it would be matched only by the Roman Empire at its height, some 600 years later. To the Greeks, who managed to repel Darius's invasion as well as that of his son, Xerxes, the Persians were both fearsome and fascinating, the ""other"" against whom they fought but also defined themselves as Greeks, and the possessors of untold riches, unseen wonders, and unbelievable marvels. Students explore interactions between the Greeks and Persians from the foundation of the Achaemenid Empire in the middle of the sixth century BCE to its collapse in the wake of Alexander the Great's conquests. Students gain familiarity not only with a general narrative of Greco-Persian history but also with the various materials (archaeological, epigraphical, and literary) from which such a narrative is built. Through close examination of diverse sources (including Persian royal inscriptions, Greek historiography and tragedy, the Hebrew Bible, and Ferdowsi's Shahhameh, as well as more recent treatments in art, literature, and film), students work to understand how contact between these two distinct yet complementary cultures in antiquity has shaped discourse about the opposition between East and West up to the present day."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 230	Classical Mythology	"Introduces students to the myths of the ancient world, focusing on those of the Greeks, Etruscans, and Romans, with consideration also of those of the Near East, south Asia, and northern Europe. Students not only acquire a thorough knowledge of the major myths surrounding both gods and heroes but also gain an appreciation of the variety of approaches to understanding and interpreting them, exploring questions of the universality, transferability, and common inheritance of myths across cultures. Readings are drawn from ancient texts and from modern critical works."	CLAS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 231	Greek Religion	"Covers the period from the Bronze Age up to and including the Hellenistic era. The following topics are considered: the phenomenon of anthropomorphism; the connection between mythology and ritual; the status of the dead; the function of the sanctuary; the role of the priest and the seer; hero-worship; evidence for human sacrifice; ecstasy, madness, and possession; the place of religion within the Greek city-state; prayers, curses, and inherited guilt; festivals and spectacles; pollution-belief; Orphism; the rise of mystery religions; and the relationship between Olympian and chthonian religion."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 232	Sexuality & Gender Greece/Rome	"Considers concepts of sexuality and gender in the Graeco-Roman world. It explores the portrayal of gender in classical mythology and examines the legal, economic, social, and religious position of women and men as reflected in historical documents and the archaeological record. Special attention is given to comparing mythological images with the realities of people's lives in Greek and Roman society."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 233	Greek Art	"Surveys the pre-Hellenic, archaic, classical, and Hellenistic art and architecture of Greece with a special emphasis on the political, social, and religious contexts in which art was produced and how it reflects the ideas and concerns of the ancient Greeks, both individually and collectively."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 234	Archaeology of Greece	"An introduction to Minoan, Mycenaean, and Greek civilizations, including a survey of major sites and monuments. Attention is given to ways in which arguments are developed from the archaeological record."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 235	Archaeology of Italy	"An introduction to the archaeology of the Italian peninsula from earliest prehistoric to late imperial times, including the major sites and monuments of native Italic cultures, Greek and Phoenician colonization, Etruscan civilization, Rome, and Pompeii. Attention is given to the ways in which arguments are developed from the archaeological record."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 236	Greek History	"The history of ancient Greece from the Archaic period to the conquests of Alexander the Great. Through readings of Herodotus and Thucydides, emphasis is placed on political and social developments at Athens and Sparta, the Persian and Peloponnesian Wars, and the events that led to the rise of Alexander's empire."	CLAS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	May be taken for history major credit.
CLAS 236X	Greek History/FLAC-Greek		CLAS	0				
CLAS 237	Roman History	"The history of ancient Rome from its foundation through the Julio-Claudian dynasty. Emphasis is placed on political, constitutional, and social developments."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	May be taken for history major credit.
CLAS 237X	Roman History/FLAC-Latin		CLAS	0				
CLAS 250	Ancient Roman City	"Private and public life in the urban centers of Roman Italy forms the focus of this course. It traces the history of the city of Rome, with all of its political, economic, social, and religious institutions, from its origins in the 8th century BC to the end of the Roman Empire in the 4th century AD. Students acquire a basic knowledge of the political and social history of Rome while discussing many of the ancient written sources that have a bearing on the subject of the private and public lives of Romans. Readings include Virgil, Livy, Tacitus, Juvenal, Petronius, Pliny the Younger, and Suetonius. Through the different approaches of archaeological, epigraphical, art historical, topographical, environmental, and historical studies, students become acquainted with the material culture of the ancient Roman city. Emphasis is placed on Rome, the capital itself, and the prosperous towns on the Bay of Naples, Herculaneum and Pompeii, that were destroyed by the eruption of Vesuvius in 79 AD."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 250E	Ancient Roman City/Ext Study	"Through direct study of the material culture of Rome and the towns of Pompeii and Herculaneum, the course investigates what life was like for men, women, and children of every socio-economic class: from the grandiose villas and urban palaces to the physical spaces where Roman urban life developed and made its fundamental contribution to western civilization."	CLAS	2				
CLAS 253	Excavating Ancient Greeks and Romans in Southern Italy	"The voyage of Odysseus is a mythic reflection of the exploration of the western Mediterranean that gathered full momentum in the 9th c. BCE, as both Phoenicians and Greeks plied new trade routes in search of metals and founded settlements in search of arable land. The Greek foundations in southern Italy and Sicily grew to be among the most wealthy and powerful centers of the classical world and, in turn, had a profound influence on the burgeoning city of Rome. Focuses on how the interdisciplinary field of archaeology has illuminated much of the history of the Greeks in Italy and their relationship with native Italic populations."	CLAS	3	GREK 121 or LATN 122 or LATN 123 or higher-level GREK course		Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 253E	Excavating Ancient Greeks and Romans in Southern Italy (Extended Study)	"This extended study allows students to approach the history and achievements of the western Greeks through direct examination of physical settings and material culture. Students first travel to several of the main archaeological sites in Sicily and southern Italy that they have studied in the spring semester seminar, CLAS 253, and then participate in archaeological excavations that lie in the shadow of some of the most impressive temples built by the ancient Greeks at Paestum."	CLAS	2			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 365E	"Freedom, Tyranny, and Philosophy in the Ancient Mediterranean (Extended Study)"	"A three-week extended study course aiming acquaint students with the geography, topography, and material culture of ancient Greece, southern Italy, and Rome; with the concepts and vocabularies of ancient political thought (in particular binaries such as freedom and tyranny, democracy and empire, republic and monarchy, citizenship and authority); and with the deep continuity between Greco-Roman political theory and ancient (as well as much contemporary) philosophical thought about ethics and human psychology."	CLAS	2	PHIL 301 or CLAS 236 or GREK 121 or LATN 122			
CLAS 401	Senior Seminar in the Classics	"This senior seminar focuses on proficiency in Greek and/or Latin, on competence in conducting research in classical studies, and on developing an understanding of and appreciation for the reception of classical literature and art."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CLAS 490	Honors	"Independent study, open to candidates for honors."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
CORE 101S	Energy and Sustainability	"Our current use of energy is unsustainable. Fossil fuels, which were deposited on Earth over hundreds of millions of years, will largely be exhausted over the course of just a few hundred years. Global climate change makes our situation even more unsustainable—we need to stop using fossil fuels long before they run out if we want to avoid catastrophic environmental change. This course takes a quantitative approach to learning about our current energy use, so that students can understand how our personal choices and lifestyles affect energy use. Discussion includes how our energy needs are met in the future through renewable resources: what technologies are available now, what are their costs, and how much energy can they provide."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 102S	"Molecules, Energy, and Environment"	"When reduced to fundamentals, virtually all of our environmental problems deal with chemicals in the wrong place: noxious and reactive gases in our atmosphere, insecticides and toxic metals in our ground and drinking water, and spilled nuclear wastes. Unfortunately, many citizens in our society do not understand the fundamentals of these environmental problems. This course -- designed for students without experience in other university-level science courses -- explores the chemistry behind some of our more pressing environmental dilemmas. Topics include some consequences of fossil fuel combustion (the greenhouse effect, acid rain, urban smog), the ozone hole, nuclear energy/wastes, and groundwater contamination. The emphasis is on the science behind these problems, what we know about how the problems have come about, and what we can do, if anything, to ease the problems. This course is for the student who has not taken college-level chemistry, but is concerned about our threatened environment."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 103S	Remote Sensing of Environment	"Remote sensing is the art and science of obtaining information about a phenomenon through a device that is not in contact with the object. The remote sensing process involves collection and analysis of data about energy, reflected from or emitted by an object. Remote sensing is used to better understand, measure, and monitor features and human activities on Earth. After an introduction to the interplay among science, technology, and remote sensing, students examine the development of remote sensing technology. Students focus on the physical principles upon which remote sensing is based, explore the basic tools of photography and photograph interpretation, and consider the principles of acquiring and interpreting data collected by non-photographic sensors. Throughout the semester, students consider how remote sensing has improved our understanding of biophysical processes using a case-study approach to demonstrate the theoretical underpinnings. Finally, consideration is given to the ethical implications of remote sensing."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 105S	Nanotechnology	"Imagine repairing your body without surgery and no longer burning fossil fuels. Imagine enjoying abundance with no manufacturing costs and taking an elevator to the moon. Imagine also the loss of all personal privacy and the irreversible poisoning of the environment. Such are the hopes, hype, and fears of nanotechnology — the study of materials and devices with dimensions on the nanoscale (1 x 10-9m, the realm of assemblies of molecules). This course provides an introduction to the science and potential implications of molecular nanotechnology. Scientific and sensationalist visions of nanotechnology are critically examined through a combination of readings, lectures, discussions, and presentations. The course forges an appreciation for the nanoscale, an understanding of the excitement and the challenges, and an awareness of the societal and ethical implications. Through the lens of nanotechnology, students gain insights applicable to the broad landscape of emerging technologies — and encourage curiosity towards the future."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 106S	"Saving the Appearances: Galileo, the Church, and the Scientific Endeavor"	"Four hundred years ago, Galileo Galilei turned his modest telescope skyward. The universe he discovered was a stark contrast to the universe described by the ancient Greek philosophers whose cosmology had held sway for over a millennium. Some 60 years after the publication of Copernicus' treatise ""On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres,"" Galileo used his newfound insight into the nature of the heavens to support the heliocentric model of the universe. In so doing, Galileo challenged not only the authority of Aristotelian cosmology, but also the religious tradition and interpretation of the scripture by the Holy Fathers of the Catholic Church. This episode in the history of western science and the development of the Church is often cited as one of the original clashes between modern science and religious traditions. The discoveries, writings, and trial of Galileo Galilei will serve as both a focus and backdrop for students to explore the practical development of scientific thought and the near simultaneous invention and re-invention of the Church. In addition to readings, written responses, and classroom discussions, the course requires students to repeat many of the ground-breaking observations Galileo made using a hand-held refracting telescope similar in size and shape to the one he built."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 106SX	"Saving the Appearances: Galileo, the Church, and the Scientific Endeavor/FLAC - Italian"			0				
CORE 108S	The Story of Colorants	"Colors are all around and people tend to take them for granted. Throughout history, humans have employed colors in artistic and creative expression, particularly in jewelry, ceramics, textile and metal art and in paintings. Some colorants occur naturally. Other colorants are manufactured, and thus the result of scientific and industrial development. In this course, students explore the history and material science of colorants. The interplay between artistic expression and science/technological discovery is considered with emphasis on the materials used in textile art and in paintings. In the process, students find out how science can be used to authenticate artwork. Is a work of art an original by a ""famous artist,"" have parts been reworked by someone else, or is it a forgery? In addition to lectures and discussions, students participate in small group hands-on projects."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 109S	In Data We Trust	"Examines fundamental concepts related to data processing and automated analysis. Students are expected to develop a conceptual understanding of how algorithms for processing and analysis work and apply this understanding in lab-like activities. The latter part of the course examines potential implications for society and contemplates questions relevant to the use of data in everyday life. Representative examples include the following: What are the consequences of massive data collection on privacy and liberty? How does one judge the fairness of a decision made using sophisticated data analytics? If a decision making process is shown to be biased, who is accountable?"		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 110S	Discovering Biology: Evolution	"Examines some of the major questions that inform human understanding of the living world. Covering long-standing biological questions as well as questions emerging from the latest discoveries, students explore the great diversity of life and how organisms adapt and change. Students use this framework to tackle new and relevant issues arising from our study of biology. The approach is student-active and hands-on; students work together to explore a few of the mysteries of the natural world."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 111	Conversations	"Employs a set of five common texts – selected by the faculty teaching the course – to promote wide-ranging conversations, anchored in the past and directed toward the present. Core Conversations defines the term “text” expansively, not limiting it to written work but encompassing diverse modes of intellectual and creative expression. As such, the common texts for this course are drawn from multiple disciplines, from pre-modern and modern worlds, and from Western and non-Western cultures. Instructors are encouraged to add other materials in order to enhance the themes of the course."		3		Conversations		
CORE 112S	Science of Relationships	"Close relationships are central to our lives; friends, parents, siblings, romantic partners, acquaintances, and coworkers have an enormous influence on one's thoughts, feelings, and behavior. The purpose of this course is to understand the processes that regulate human relationships using a scientific perspective. It will include an overview of social psychology theories of relationships research and an exploration of the current literature. Students will be exposed to a variety of research methods and will have the opportunity to design their own experiment about relationships. Topics include attraction, intimacy, attachment, friendship, interdependence, communication, dissolution and loss, love, and maintaining relationships."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 113S	How to Build a Baby	"If one were a highly developed, extraterrestrial scientist with advanced technology to engineer organisms from other planets, how would one build a human baby? What kind of brain would one design? What kinds of social, emotional, and cognitive predispositions would be included? What kind of environment would one provide? To answer these questions, one must determine what is innate and what is learned in human development. Although this ""nature-nurture"" question can be traced back to ancient philosophers (right here on Earth!), modern-day science has made great strides in exploring (and reformulating) this question. In this class, students first explore some pop-culture approaches to this issue. Then, they briefly trace the history of the debate to its foundations in classical and modern philosophy. Finally, students compare these philosophical and pop-culture perspectives to modern-day scientific approaches. This is accomplished through primary and secondary readings, class discussions, and group presentations. In the end, students may discover that the answers to the ""nature-nurture"" question are not on a planet far, far way - but rather closer to home than they have ever been."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 114S	"Ecology, Ethics, & Wilderness"	"Explores the ways in which scientific concepts, such as deep geologic time and Earth history, biological evolution and co-evolution, and ecosystem dynamics can inform humans about radical moral stances (e.g., biocentrism, deep ecology). Also investigates whether a scientific perspective, in and of itself, is sufficient to resolve pressing environmental problems, most of which are the outcome of complex social, economic, political, philosophical, and historical forces that operate on regional and global scales."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 115S	Language Acquisition	"Explores how infants and adults acquire native and foreign languages. What goes on in the brains of new-born infants before they discover the meanings of words? What might be the linguistic and social consequence of acquiring an English dialectal accent, distinguishing or not distinguishing between Mary, merry, and marry? Why do some adults succeed in learning a second language, while others do not? Why are some Japanese unable to tell the difference between rice and lice? When a girl had no contact with a language speaking community, is she able to acquire her first language after puberty? Are bonobo chimpanzees able to learn human language? Students read books and articles that address these issues, watch films and have some direct experience of learning a difficult second language. Physiological, linguistic, psychological, and social factors that determine whether one succeeds or fails to acquire native and foreign languages are discussed."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 120S	Earth Resources	"Management of the Earth's energy, mineral, and water resources is a subject of ongoing controversy and debate. This debate revolves around two related issues: the diminishing supply of some resources and the environmental cost of resource extraction and energy production. This course examines the origin and geologic setting of Earth's resources, and how these factors influence resource exploration, extraction, and use. Environmental and economic aspects of resource extraction are explored. Students examine the public debate about resource management and conservation, as well as the roles of politics and the media in shaping this debate. This course emphasizes student-led discussions of case studies dealing with current resource-related topics. The purpose of this course is to create a framework in which resource issues can be evaluated, integrating the scientific and social issues inherent in resource development."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 122S	Life in the Universe: A Cosmic Perspective	"Examines the historical debate on the concept of whether extraterrestrial life exists. Students examine what astronomy and physics tell about the origin and evolution of the Universe, the production of elements that make up living matter on Earth, the evolution of stars like the Sun, and the formation of solar systems. Also examined are the astronomical, geological, chemical, and biological conditions that were responsible for the origin and evolution of life on Earth, and speculate about the possibility of life on other planets in our solar system or on planets around other stars. How would one detect the presence of life on other planets in the solar system; in the galaxy? The development of intelligent life and the possibility of contact between civilizations are examined."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 123S	Climate Change and Human History	"As the ""Global Warming Summit"" made clear, anthropogenic activity has the potential to dramatically alter global climate. The increased introduction of greenhouse gases, sulfate aerosols, and dust through human activities may result in a variety of regional responses, including warming and cooling, changes in precipitation and drought patterns, and rising sea level. Climate change as a force driving human history, however, is not unique to the 20th century. The primary objectives of this course are to present case studies that demonstrate the strong role of climate in driving human evolution, adaptation, and societies; and to assess the relationship between climate forcing and man, with a view toward understanding the potential consequences of modern anthropogenic impacts."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 124S	Cells and Human Development	"The fusion of sperm and egg cells to form a single-celled zygote is the initial step in development in most multi-cellular organisms. In humans, repeated divisions of this single fertilized egg are responsible for the production of more than 70 trillion cells of greater than 200 different types. In this course students examine how a fertilized egg undergoes division, how the stem cells produced by these divisions become ""determined"" to form cells of particular types, and how these determined cells finally differentiate into the highly specialized cells that make up most tissues and organs. As this process is examined, students also explore the relationship between cells and developmental patterns, and investigate how genetic and environmental factors can influence (and alter) cell fate. Biological, social, and ethical aspects of the human manipulation of development are also considered, including examination of such topics as cloning by nuclear transfer, reproductive technology, fetal surgery, stem cells, and embryonic gene therapy."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 128S	Global Change and You	"Our planet is currently undergoing a level of abiotic and biotic change that is unprecedented in recent history and the scientific consensus is that it is anthropogenic. This course introduces students to the recent data on climate change and inferred causes and consequences of that change. Throughout the course, the way in which humans influence these changes and also the ways in which these changes impact humans are explored. The main focus of the course is the carbon cycle, specifically on human energy consumption, food production, and water use, and how they are linked to biodiversity loss. The many sides of issues (e.g., biofuels) are explored and debated throughout the course. The immediate consequences of global change are demonstrated in a required weekend field trip to the Adirondacks in the third week of the classes to learn about the effects of pollution and climate on our local ecosystems."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 129S	Dangerous Earth: Science of Geologic Disasters	"Geologic disasters, such as floods, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions, serve as dramatic reminders of the power of nature and the catastrophic impact that these disasters have on society. As recent events such as the 2003 tsunami in Sumatra demonstrate, these disasters can exact a terrible cost in both economic terms and loss of life. Society has a clear interest in understanding what causes these disasters and how to reduce their impact on human populations. Geology provides a scientific framework for understanding the potential risks and effects of geologic disasters. This course examines the science behind four disasters that pose major risks to society: floods, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and meteoric impacts. Students examine significant case studies to understand the types of data collected to study these disasters, ambiguities in the data, and how risk is estimated. Students also examine potential ways to reduce the damage caused by such hazards and the scientific, economic, political, and societal implications of these approaches."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 131S	Scientific In-queery: LGBTQ Perspectives in Research	"Students are introduced to the fundamentals of scientific research methodologies with a focus on how research practices work to better understand or further marginalize the lived experiences of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer) populations. As the study of LGBTQ populations expands, researchers need to reflect on queer epistemologies that allow us to interrogate the social world in an inclusive and affirming manner. Students will be encouraged to think critically about ethical and theoretical debates surrounding the study of gender and sexual minority populations. Students will also learn how data are collected, analyzed, and presented and will practice the necessary skills needed to critically assess information."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 138S	Advent of the Atomic Bomb	"This course examines the scientific evolution of nuclear weapons and the historical context in which they were developed. World War II made urgent the exploitation of atomic power for military purposes. Topics include the scientific thought that made harnessing nuclear power possible, the political pressure that shaped that process, the ramifications of the bomb for science and politics during and immediately after the war, and the subsequent impact of nuclear bomb use on the population and the environment. The course includes consideration of post-WWII developments of nuclear weapons, weapons testing, and nuclear power generation, with an emphasis on their environmental impact."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 139S	Election Methods/Voting Tech	"How should we elect our president and other officials? What is the best way to cast and record our votes? This course surveys different methods of conducting elections. We develop tools to assess the fairness of our election methods in this country and how they might make policy decisions related to elections. These policies concern the ways of casting our votes (voting technology) and the election methods. One part of the course compares different ways of electing candidates and the mathematical theory behind these methods. The second part of the course considers different ways that votes can be cast. This includes the history of different methods of voting and their vulnerability to fraud. This leads to current debates about voting technology: How effective are different modern systems, such as electronically scanned ballots and direct recording electronic (DRE) voting machines, for accurately and securely recording votes and protecting against voting fraud?"		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 140S	Language and Cognition	"What is the relationship between language and cognition? To answer this question this course explores the interrelation between verbal expression and such cognitive faculties as bodily experience, imagination, memory, categorization, and abstract thought. The study of language as a cognitive phenomenon is a relatively new discipline. It originated in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Since then, cognitive linguistics has been a rapidly growing field that has both benefited from and contributed to its allied disciplines of cognitive psychology, cognitive anthropology, and cognitive neuroscience. The course begins by examining the advantages and shortcomings of the cognitive perspective on the different levels of language (e.g., sounds, words, sentences, texts, etc.). Students explore the connections of cognitive linguistics with the related fields that are broadly referred to as the ""cognitive sciences."" No background in linguistics is required, but interest in linguistics is expected."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 141C	Sri Lanka	"What is Sri Lanka? How does this faraway, “island,” nation state inform different identities and belongings? Students are introduced to key questions on the study of Sri Lanka and its identity formation using cinematic, literary, historical, textual and visual scholarly materials. Students address themes such as: notions of kinship, gender, political conflict, religion, nationalism, colonialism, sexuality, and forms of belief and belonging. The course is meant for a beginner student who may have heard of Sri Lanka’s ethnic war or the recent protests against the government but is not familiar with the living cultures of the people of the land. Students have an opportunity to investigate topics of interest to them, in the form of research essays as well as curatorial or media projects."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 143S	Statistics in Real Life	"Introduces students to statistical thinking by examining data collected to solve real-world problems. A wide range of applications are considered. Topics include experimental design, descriptive statistics, the normal curve, correlation and regression, probability theory, sampling, the central limit theorem, estimation, hypothesis testing, paired observations, and the chi-square test. Particular emphasis is given to the models that underlie statistical inference. This course is no longer crosslisted as MATH 102."		3	Three years of secondary school mathematics	Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 145C	Dirty South	"The Dirty South offers an interdisciplinary exploration of the rich history, cultural and aesthetic traditions, as well as the environmental and architectural landscapes that make up Black southern life in the United States. The course title, which is inspired by the Black southern vernacular phrase for the region, marks the course’s focus on the particularly diverse mixture of cross-cultural, diasporic traditions, beliefs and practices that define the south, from Virginia to Texas and all points in between. Course materials include readings that chronicle histories of slavery, Jim Crow, mass incarnation and gentrification, personal narratives that provide insights into historical and contemporary political realities and social movement organizing, and music, film, and visual art that lend an affective window into the sensory, spatial, and creative dimensions of the Black south. In addition to considering the profound social fabric of Black southern life and its larger impact on the United States, students also explore how this culture and region present a generative challenge to conventional notions that posit identity and geographical boundaries as clear and distinct categories."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 146S	The Good Life: Perspectives from Psychological Science	"Throughout history, men and women have been captivated by questions of what constitutes the “good life” and how such a life can be cultivated. What is the nature of human happiness, joy, and pleasure? How can people most effectively cope with the inevitable difficulties faced in life? Are some people simply born more content than others? How are happiness and life satisfaction affected by health, relationships, material wealth, culture, habits of thought, and spiritual practice? This course focuses on how contemporary psychological research can be used to answer these enduring questions. Students read original research articles on these topics and gain hands-on experience collecting and analyzing data. Throughout the course, students are helped to recognize the strengths and limitations of the scientific method for approaching questions such as these, and students are encouraged to articulate their own emerging views of what constitutes a life worth living."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 146SR	SRS: Research & Reflection			1				
CORE 147C	Senegal	"An introduction to the cultural diversity and vitality of Senegal. Focusing on postcolonial Senegal and the diaspora, we will study the lived experiences of and theoretical scholarship on gender, sexual, religious, racial, national, and class categories and identities. The course asks how these are informed by shifting political economic agendas including decolonization, nationalism, and global capitalism. Employing a decolonial perspective, we will pay particular attention to the afterlife of French colonialism, based on the premise that ""postcolonial"" describes not the end but the shifting nature of European domination. The objectives are to unpack how Senegalese people of various identities are positioned in the world, to understand the constructed nature and fluidity of intersecting identities, and to encounter the ways in which individuals and communities creatively respond to identity-based oppression."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 147S	"Emerging Global Challenges: Science, Technology, and Culture"	"In the 21st century, global citizenship will require a comprehensive understanding of key challenges on a planetary scale, including global warming, diminishing energy resources, population pressures (adequate water and food supplies, humane living conditions), urbanization, and the impact of natural disasters. This course will explore the underlying scientific concepts essential to developing a thorough understanding of the phenomenon and developing a healthy skepticism and critical analysis of complex, global-scale processes. Through the application of design-thinking project-based learning, students will assess the potential global ramifications of selected global issues, develop their own interpretations, and propose creative solutions."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 148C	Black Migrations	"An investigation of the contemporary dispersal of African-descended people throughout the world. While students focus primarily on dispersion to the Americas, some attention is also given to Africa, the Caribbean, Europe, and the Indian Ocean Basin. Recognizing the value of a complex diasporic lens that includes race, gender, sexuality, immigration status, and class, students are introduced to diasporic encounters African descendants have experienced, the formation of transnational social movements, black internationalism, Pan Africanism, post-1965 immigration, and contemporary Black life. To this end, coursework will challenge and expand students' understandings of the diverse and complex history of people of the African Diaspora, what it means to be Black in the 21st Century, and how contemporary Black life is been informed by cultural exchanges in addition to migration, colonialism, slavery, and the quest for political enfranchisement."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 149C	Hispaniola (Haiti/Dom. Rep.)	"A single island, both divided and unified by distinct languages and colonial legacies, students explore the complex negotiations of race and nation in Haiti and the Dominican Republic. By studying works of literature, film, cultural studies, history, and politics from both sides of the border and its diasporas, students consider how the various articulations of colonial and postcolonial identities by states and different social actors have affected the national and international narratives of what it means to be from Hispaniola. Throughout the course, students ponder how physical and notional borders are employed as both tools of exclusion and sites for cooperation and exchange, while considering the complex processes by which national identities are constructed, disputed, and negated. In particular, students focus on discourses of race, language, gender, class, and migration as key to understanding the complexity of these issues, both on the island and in its diasporas."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 149CX	Hispaniola(Haiti/DomRep)/FLAC			0				
CORE 150C	Native Peoples of the Great Plains	"The Native people of the Great Plains are among the most familiar, yet least understood, cultural groups in all of North America. This course seeks to understand Plains Indian people beyond the simplistic renderings of Hollywood films. How have Plains people adapted to their unique environment, and how have their livelihoods changed over time? What historical processes underlay Plains Indian people's relationship to settler society, and how can we understand changes to plains life through lenses like race and gender? And what is happening in Plains Indian communities today? With these questions in mind, this Core Communities and Identities seminar will trace the experiences of Plains Indian people from the colonial era through the present day."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 151	Legacies of the Ancient World	"Explores ancient texts that articulate perennial issues, such as the nature of the human and the divine; virtue and the good life; the true, the just, and the beautiful; the difference between subjective opinion and objective knowledge. These texts exemplify basic modes of speech, literary forms, and patterns of thinking that establish the terminology of academic and intellectual discourse and critical thought across many different societies: epic, rhetoric, tragedy, poetry, epistemology, science, democracy, rationality, the soul, spirit, law, grace. Such terms have shaped the patterns of life, norms, and prejudices that human communities have continually challenged, criticized, and refashioned throughout history. To highlight both the dialogue and conflicts between the texts and the traditions they embody, this course, taught by a multidisciplinary staff and in an interdisciplinary manner, focuses on both the historical contexts of these texts and the ongoing retellings and reinterpretations of them through time. The course includes texts from the ancient Mediterranean world that have given rise to some of the philosophical, political, religious, and artistic traditions associated with “The West,” emphasizing that Western traditions were not formed in a vacuum but developed in dialogue and conflict with other traditions. Common to all sections of this component are classic works such as Homer, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, Plato, and a Roman text. Complementary texts or visual materials from the ancient period, in and beyond the Western world, and/or response texts from the medieval or contemporary periods are added by faculty in individual sections."		3		Legacies of Ancient World		
CORE 151R	SRS: Research & Reflection			1				
CORE 151X	Legacies Anc World/CLAC			0				
CORE 152	Challenges of Modernity	"Modernity is a crucial element of the intellectual legacy to which we are heirs. A matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last quarter millennium, modernity has introduced new problems and possibilities into human life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, identity, and morality have been critiqued in distinctive ways. People of different social classes, racial groups, ethnic backgrounds, genders and sexual identities have contributed to an increasingly rich public discourse. The human psyche has been problematized, and the dynamic character of the world, both natural and social, has been explored. Urbanization and technological development have transformed the patterns of everyday life. Imperialism has had a complex and lasting impact on the entire globe. The human capability to ameliorate social and physical ills has increased exponentially, and yet so has the human capacity for mass destruction and exploitation. In this course, taught by an interdisciplinary staff, students explore texts from a variety of media that engage with the ideas and phenomena central to modernity. To ensure a substantially common experience for students, the staff each year chooses texts to be taught in all sections of the course. This component of the Core Curriculum encourages students to think broadly and critically about the world that they inhabit, asking them to see their contemporary concerns in the perspective of the long-standing discourses of modernity."		3		Challenges of Modernity		
CORE 153C	Appalachia	"A multidisciplinary introduction to the Appalachian region of the United States, with a particular focus on representation, culture, sense of place, the history of the labor movement, and issues of social and environmental justice. Books, articles, movies, songs, and art that engage the reader critically with the history, people, environment, and economy of central Appalachia will serve as the texts for this course. The course seeks to complicate and challenge popular myths and stereotypical renderings of the Appalachian region, which typically portray its people as devastatingly and deservedly impoverished: economically, intellectually, and culturally. Through the works of Appalachian authors, filmmakers, songwriters and musicians, artists, storytellers, and scholars, students develop a deeper understanding of Appalachian identity, an appreciation for the phrase ""sense of place,"" and a new critical lens through which to view American society and their role within it."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 154C	Indonesia	"As the world's fourth most populous country, modern Indonesia is home to over 260 million religiously and ethnically diverse individuals. Despite its substantial population and rich regional cultures, Indonesia is often overlooked both in American popular discourse and at American universities. This course pushes back against this unfortunate pattern of neglect. Students approach Indonesia as a valuable window into a whole host of global issues including: the legacy of European colonialism, the complexities of nation-building, cultural evolution, religious revivals, literature and the arts, economic development, and climate change. The vibrancy and paradoxes of modern Indonesian lives are highlighted."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 155C	Internet	"Examines the internet as a site of disparate cultures from multiple disciplines including: computing, history, psychology, and sociology. Students are introduced to the technological infrastructure of the internet and the historical context in which it was developed. Drawing on theory, this course explores the internet as a place for communities to form, individual self-presentation, social interactions online and off, as well as power and inequality. Topics may include: digital divide, echo chambers, trolling, cyberbullying, etc. Ultimately, the internet provides a context to study the concept of community and the ways in which shared identities are constructed and negotiated."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 156C	Southern Africa	"Introduces students to the history of the major countries of Southern Africa. The course emphasizes that these countries are connected by patterns of culture, migration and economic exchange, political contingencies and warfare. It ranges from the precolonial period, through the time of the British, Portuguese, Belgian and German Empires, to conflicts in the region during the independence and Cold War eras. It seeks to give a picture of the cultures of these countries, and their political, social and economic conditions, today. There is a particular focus on interactions between nations, and issues of migration and trans­border initiatives. South Africa has a central place in the course but attention will particularly be given to Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe, Namibia and the 'Copperbelt' region of northern Zambia and Katanga/Shaba."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 156S	"Drugs, Brain, & Behavior"	"Drugs, used recreationally and medicinally, can have physiological and behavioral consequences that are important to both the individual and society. The processes in the brain and nervous system that mediate drug-induced effects on behavior and physiology are examined with emphasis on the strategies and methods used to evaluate, scientifically, the effects of drugs. This course is designed for students with no background in the field of neuroscience."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 157C	France	"A multidisciplinary survey of the varied communities and identities of France. It focuses on France as a leading member of the European Union, as a former major colonial power, and as a leader in the arts. Using history, films, photography, literature, and journalism, the course will examine France's efforts to come to terms with its colonial past; its self-examination through the ""politics of memory""; the different ""communities"" within France itself--youth, religious groups (e.g., Jewish, Muslim, Catholic), the communities of refugees and immigrants and the divisions within those groups; and its vibrant culture, with a particular focus on French cinema. The course will also examine the current political landscape in France."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 158C	Puerto Rico	"Understand the cultural, political and social complexities of Puerto Rican identity, with particular attention given to the effects of Spanish and U.S. colonialism on gender and race relations in the stateless nation. Students will study how the colonial discourses that shaped the earliest modern Puerto Rican imaginary continues to inform current political discourse. Through the study of a wide-ranging body of Puerto Rican work that includes literature, cinema, history, and politics, students seek answers to how national identity is articulated in a colonial context, how migration to the mainland has altered the cultural landscape and what kinds of collective cultural and political movements have emerged in response to the island's socio-economic and political problems. Focused on issues of gender and sexuality to understand how these, along with issues of race and class today are linked to the island's colonial legacy, in order to develop a framework for understanding the complex relationships between nation, gender and race on the island and within Puerto Rican communities in the U.S."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 158CR	SRS:Research & Reflection			1				
CORE 158S	Molecules that Rock Your World	"How could a collection of atoms, tethered together to form molecules, have played such important roles in colonization, health, environment, lifestyle, and so forth? We will look at 13 of the most intriguing molecules in history. As we explore these interesting histories, we will catalogue a few of the relevant scientific observations and molecular structures that give rise to the important characteristics of particular “world rocking” molecules. Molecular modeling, demonstrations, and lab-like exercises will illustrate the connection between structure and function. Students will also suggest and research other molecules that have impacted history or might be projected to have a profound influence in the future."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 159C	Maya	"The term ""Maya"" typically conjures images of ancient pyramids and/or ancient civilizations that are now found in ruins. Some forms of popular media, particularly science fiction, even go as far as describing the Maya people as a civilization that mysteriously disappeared sometime around AD. 900. The Maya currently total over 7 million people in what is today Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, and El Salvador. Furthermore, the word ""Maya"" serves as an umbrella term that refers to a number of diverse populations, each with distinct culture, language, and material culture. This course will focus on both the construction of the pan-Maya identity, and the numerous populations included within the concept, such as the Tzel Tal, Tzotzil, Kaqchikel, K'iche', Chantal, and the Lacandon, just to name a few. Each of these groups has distinct histories, which often demonstrated significant clashes with colonial and modem national hegemonies. This course also highlights how tradition, language, and identity are preserved under the forces of colonial and nationalistic domination and will also delve into the subject of changing traditions, as these Maya movements of resistance have integrated social media, rock music, and hip-hop to engage younger generations. Ultimately, the Maya provide a means of deconstructing the concept of identity itself by demonstrating how shared identities are constructed, contested, and negotiated."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 160C	Latin America	"Explores how the idea of ""Latin America"" came to be and the various political purposes it has served from the colonial encounter to the contemporary moment. This is not a traditional survey course that gives an overview of the regional mosaic we have come to call ""Latin America."" Instead, it illuminates how the very notion of Latin America as a discrete world-region has been conjured and politicized at key historical moments, emphasizing the underlying social inclusions, exclusions, and global relations fueling these multiple (re)inventions. In addition to the central themes of race, nature, and anti-imperialism, the crucial role of the United States as an interventionist foreign power also looms large in this story."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 162S	Foodwise	"Food is essential for all of us to survive but we often take food and food preparation for granted. Have you ever wondered why some food tastes as it does or how food preparation can alter the taste of consistency of a dish? What is a balanced diet and why do we strive to have one? In this course students explore how understanding the science of food and cooking enhances our enjoyment of it as well as our benefit from it. Students look at the history and culture of human nourishment, and explore some controversial aspects of food and food technology, such as use of additives, genetically modified organisms, and diets and weight loss programs. If you have an appetite for learning or are just food motivated, this course may appeal to your senses."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 163C	The Caribbean	"The archipelago of islands and mainland nations called the Caribbean constitutes a complex montage of races, ethnic groups, languages, and nations. Stretching from Guyana in South America to as far north as the Bahamas, minutes from the coast of Miami, the region is joined by a common history of slavery, imperialism, and resistant self-definition. This course studies literature, film, and music of the region to trace a socio-cultural history of the Caribbean. What are the continued effects of slavery and imperialism on the Caribbean? How does African-Creole culture in particular respond to these continued effects? How do tourism, advertising, music, and film inform/construct people’s relationship to the Caribbean in the global present?"		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 164C	Argentina	"From gauchos in the Pampa, to immigrants in Buenos Aires, to oil workers in Patagonia, Argentina offers a fascinating place to examine the creation, transformation and contestation of identities and communities. This course introduces students to some of the events, institutions, people and sites that have been important for the development of Argentina, from before the land’s European colonization, to the rise of populism, dictatorship and resistance in the 20th century, to neoliberal globalization in the current moment. In the process, students gain new ways to understand identity, community, nation, and culture, which they can use wherever they encounter people different from themselves. The course is interdisciplinary and draws from anthropology, history, geography, literature, film, and related disciplines."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 165C	China	"China has the distinction of being one of the world’s oldest continuous cultures, with 5,000 years of rich, complex history. Today, it is also a rising international power with the second largest economy on the globe. CORE 165C approaches China not as a monolithic entity, but as a complicated place and people best understood through diverse perspectives, including but not limited to history, economics, geography, literature, art, politics, environment, society, ethnicity, gender, migration, and diaspora. Students also gain indispensable research skills as they develop their own projects."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 166C	India	"Offers a wide-ranging and challenging introduction to contemporary India--its famed social, political and cultural diversity, its conflicts and contradictions, its literature and history. India as it is known today, with its population of more than a billion, is a recent creation, a product of the partition of the South Asian colonies of the British Raj (Empire). How has such a diverse region come together, and been held together, as one nation? How have its conflicts and contradictions—of class, caste, ethnicity, language, religion and politics—been managed by its rulers and politicians? How have these conflicts and contradictions been captured in novels and on film? The course goal is to subject the “Idea of India” to a detailed investigation, beginning in the present, and working through a process of excavation, discovery, and critique."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 166S	The Air Up There	"Weather and climate command our attention because they deeply affect life on Earth. Now more than ever, life on Earth also affects atmospheric conditions, with vitally important scientific, political, cultural, and ethical implications. Course readings, discussions, and lectures examine the atmosphere from microscopic and macroscopic points of view, exploring the atomic basis for atmospheric properties such as pressure, temperature, and transparency; investigating the physical processes behind weather patterns and disturbances; and examining some of the complexities of global climate change. The course emphasizes interactions between the atmosphere and humans, as well as interactions between science and other human endeavors. Students better their understanding of the atmosphere, weather phenomena, climate change, and the power and limitations of scientific inquiry. A term project allows students to study an atmospheric phenomenon of their choosing and to strengthen their knowledge through written, oral, and visual presentations."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 167C	Japan	"Engages in dialogue with popular discourses, scholarly literature, and primary information sources of Japan and those who live in the island nation state. Focuses on key social and cultural issues that characterize contemporary Japan while also paying attention to its historical experiences and traditions that variably shape the present. Examines such topics as changing ‘western’ views on the Japanese, diversity in Japanese society, socio-demographic challenges, literature and religion, Japanese political economy and globalization, societal response to natural disasters, and popular culture. Employs a wide range of learning methods, including lecture, class discussion, films, hands-on experiences (e.g., calligraphy), and intensive projects which require students to collect, analyze, and synthesize a wide range of scholarly and non-scholarly sources. Ultimately aims to nurture students’ ability to understand and empathize with the logic (and illogic), experiences and emotions of the Japanese people; that is to say, to understand them as you would understand yourselves."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 169C	Rwanda	"A multidisciplinary examination of the ways in which community and identity have been formed, are politicized, and remain relatively static over time. This is not a course about the 1994 genocide, but rather one about how such an event could have happened. This world-defining event is historically situated and culturally contextualized as a way to study Rwanda’s past and the questions it raises about its future. The experience of Rwandans and consideration of how they understand themselves are analyzed. Assesses the historical and social implications of being ethnic Hutu, Tutsi, or Twa in Rwanda, whether at particular watershed moments — in for example 1894, 1931, 1959, or 1994 — or during periods of so-called ‘normalcy’ that the country has enjoyed in the past and is experiencing at the moment."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 170C	Islamic North Africa	"Surveys the varied ethno-national and religious identities and communities of Islamic North Africa, or “the Maghreb”: Morocco, Algeria, and Tunisia, and sometimes Libya, Western Sahara, and Mauritania. Students briefly survey pre-modern Maghreb history from the 7th-century advance of Islam to 19th-century French colonialism. Students focus on the modern Maghreb from the colonial 19th century to the global 21st. Pursuing central CI themes, students examine the region from “the natives’ point of view,” i.e., from North Africans’ perspectives on Islam and politics, European and American imperialism, authoritarianism and democracy, technological media, gender, and class. Central to this discussion are the recent Arab revolutions and their continuing aftermath."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 170S	Media Effects	"Uses a social scientific approach to examine the effects that media exposure has on audience members. Students develop an understanding of how the media affects audience members' physiology, cognition, beliefs, attitudes, affective states, and behavior. Key media topics studied include violence, sex, politics, and portrayals of groups. Key types of media studied include television, music, video games, and social media."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 171C	Mexico	"An interdisciplinary introduction to the history, people, art and cultures of Mexico, a country of diverse ethnic, sexual, gendered, class, and political identities that shares a 2,000-mile border with the United States. How does Mexico’s colonial past inform the present? On what terms has a Mexican national identity been defined and who is included or excluded from rights and citizenship? Objectives are to examine Mexico’s complex history and social fabric; to study Mexican identities, politics, and cultural expressions with relation to this history; and to gain a general understanding of contemporary Mexico in the context of current events and Mexico’s relationship to the United States."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 172C	California	"Examines the fabric of California’s syncretic cultures in historical, geographic, sociologic, artistic, racial, literary, political, and economic contexts. The diverse settlement patterns, environmental and economic challenge/opportunity, explosion of art forms, and continuous creation of new communities often foreshadowed trends of the entire nation. Readings explore major themes and issues of California history, while literary and personal narratives provide insight into social and political realities, including the struggles of successive waves of immigrants to interact with the established populations. Artistic and architectural expressions that document cultural phenomena offer tangible examples of the creative forces that shaped Californian intellectual and physical communities. Sociological case studies as well as economic, political, and environmental reporting assist students to understand the challenges, failures, and victories of the composite California culture. Underlying all of this is a continuous study of the variegated geography of California, which has both offered and required substantial human choices."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 173C	Ethiopia	"Surveys the culture, religion, communities, history, and socio-economic developments of Ethiopia from the ancient times to the modern period. Ethiopia is home to over 80 ethnic groups with striking cultures that are distinct from Western traditions. Major themes include peoples and languages; traditional customs and beliefs; Christianity and Islam; marriages; community service organizations; literature, novels; education; ethnic relations; traditional art and music; colonial resistance; sports; socio-economic developments; natural resources usage; Ethiopia and Europe; the Ethiopian revolution; Ethiopian immigrants in the United States; traditional harmful practices; and politics. Emphasis is also given to contemporary issues. Lectures are supplemented by discussions, film presentation, group activity, and coffee ceremony."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 176C	Indigenous North America	"Provides an overview of North American Indians by drawing on case studies from four groupings: New England tribes; Iroquois; Cheyenne; and Pueblos. These cultures are studied in terms of their historical and political relationship to Anglo-American society and institutions, attending to Native Americans' resistance to attempted conquest by European or American powers, the creation of reservation systems, and the use of institutions (e.g., the Bureau of Indian Affairs, schools, missions) to change Native American cultures. Students also examine the response of Native Americans to outside pressures. Students explore other issues, such as sovereignty, identity, gambling, repatriation, land claims, and education, and their impact on North American Indians. Videotapes and Native American artifacts are studied throughout the semester."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 177C	Peru	"The Latin American country Peru evokes dramatic and conflicting images of spectacular natural settings, ancient ruins, cosmopolitan cities, shantytowns, street children, poverty and more. It is a country of extremes. This course offers an interdisciplinary inquiry into this ecologically and culturally diverse land. The course begins by exploring the distinct geography and ecology of the central Andean region (rainforest, mountains, desert, and ocean) in order to understand how these features have shaped the societies that inhabit the region of present-day Peru. This involves analyzing the evolution and organization of Pre-Columbian societies, paying special attention to the Inca civilization. It also examines the ideologies, institutions and practices introduced with the Spanish conquest and era of colonialism in order to understand their impact on indigenous society and their relevance to the state of underdevelopment that characterizes contemporary Peru. Study of present-day Peru juxtaposes rural and urban life, the ties between the two spheres, and the crisis conditions that enveloped both ways of life until recently. Specific issues include the internal armed conflict, the coca culture and cocaine economy, shantytowns and land invasions, oil extraction and indigenous resistance, among other compelling issues. Throughout the term, this course emphasizes the many paradoxes of this intriguing land."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 177S	Critical Analysis of Health: Cancer	"Examines a key global health issue, such as AIDS or Cancer, from an interdisciplinary approach. The readings introduce students to the history, politics, science, and public health issues of the disease. Students will examine the epidemiology of the disease, examining how geography, socioeconomic status, and other factors influence transmission and treatment, and statistical measures used to analyze data about causes, cures and spread of disease will be introduced. Finally, the impacts of the disease on communities at different scales will be examined."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 178S	Water	"Explores water technologies and their evolution through time, and how the technologies related to water distribution and treatment evolve with human’s understanding of and interaction with water. Through the lens of science and engineering, students examine the role water plays in human health, the environment, and sustainability. Focused on history of water transportation; water quality issues, coinciding with an improved understanding of water following advances in chemistry, biology, and physics; and modern and emerging problems related to water and water technology. Students cover topics on the application and limitation of scientific knowledge, and broader impacts that technology has on past and current societies."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 179C	Central Asia	"Central Asia lies at the intersection of East and South Asian, Islamic, and European worlds. Yet Central Asia possesses a unique culture of its own, shared by nomads of the steppes and settled peoples of the oasis cities throughout the region constituted by the modern nation-states of Afghanistan, Kirghizstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan (and, to some extent, Mongolia). This course offers an introduction to this multiethnic, multinational community through the eyes of its participants, from medieval geographers to nomad bards to pan-Turkist revolutionaries and post-Soviet autocrats."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 179S	An Unequal World	"Social inequality affects us all. This course will explore what the science of social psychology tells us about how social inequality shapes the ways we think, live, and die. Because social inequality is about the relative status of people based on their group memberships, we will begin the course by exploring social psychological theories that help explain the centrality of our group memberships to our identity. As we will see, these group memberships can be based on many different aspects of our identity: race, gender, socioeconomic status, among many others. Next, we will explore what experimental data tell us about the sources of, and consequences of, group-based disparities. In particular, we will examine the roles of limited resources, identity, power, morality, and prejudice in perpetuating inequality. Finally, we will discuss the emerging literature on how to coexist more peacefully in an unequal world."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 180C	French Caribbean	"Martinique, a 400 square-mile island, is an official part of France today despite being 4200 miles away from mainland France. French is the official language but most Martinicans freely express themselves in Creole. The majority of Martinicans will declare that they are, first and foremost, citizens of the French Republic, but will also readily admit that they are Martinican by culture. What is striking about Martinique is the dizzying array of cultural signifiers that seem to coexist in a veritable braided community, in which it can be genuinely difficult to tell where one cultural identity strand ends and another begins. Martinique is thus a fabulous lens through which this process of negotiating and renegotiating of cultures, languages, and identities can be viewed, and can be considered a precursor to modern-day globalization."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 180CX	French Caribbean/FLAC			0				
CORE 180S	The Science of Music	"What is music? How do natural raw sounds become a musical phenomenon? Why are some combinations of sounds more pleasant than others? The answers to these questions are tightly related to the concepts of matter, energy, time and space. Where there is music, there is sound; and where there is sound, there is physics. This course is an exploration of the underlying principles of the musical phenomena, including acoustics of musical instruments, formation of scales and perception of sound."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 181S	Cooperation & the Environment	"Cooperation is the key to understanding many environmental problems and policies. When and how do humans cooperate with each other to solve environmental issues? What features make that cooperation easier or harder, and what can we do to encourage cooperation? This course explores the origins of cooperation from an economic, biological, psychological, and social perspective, with a particular focus on game theory. This knowledge is then applied to a variety of environmental issues, ranging from climate change to overfishing to the hole in the ozone layer."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 183C	The Middle East	"A multi-disciplinary introduction both to the region conventionally referred to as the Middle East, and also to the academic discipline of Middle Eastern Studies. In other words, it is a study of the people, religion, history, and culture of the region, and also about the politics of studying that region. One of the presuppositions is that a careful, rigorous, and critical study of cultural studies can help one understand one’s own assumptions, presuppositions, etc. Among the topics students examine are the multiple interpretations of religion, including sects within Islam, that exist in the region; a variety of cultural practices and various languages; and the effect of imperialism and colonialism on the area. Readings include what current native commentators are saying on cultural, economic, and social debates."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 183CX	The Middle East/FLAC			0				
CORE 183S	The Science Fiction Effect	"Combines popular science writing with works of science fiction in order to interrogate the ways in which science is presented, expressed, and translated into texts intended for lay people. Students will consider the role both kinds of work play in shaping public scientific literacy. Readings will include essays from Best American Science Writing, recently published nonfiction in the genre of popular science, assorted recent articles, as well as seminal and contemporary works of literary science fiction. Students will gain a deeper understanding of how science is practiced and written about today, as well as the ways in which fiction about scientific advances popularizes the science it addresses. Given what we learn through reading nonfiction, is fictional writing about real science a fruitful part of public scientific discourse?"		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 185S	Balderdash Codswallop &Malarky	"Takes a scientific approach to understand the sources and validity of information. Students focus on the roles of language, mathematics, and computation in the production, dissemination, and consumption of knowledge. Discussions include strategies for recognizing false or misleading information, and topics are considered through multiple lenses. This requires questioning one’s own expertise as well as understanding the lifecycle of information, for good judgment and intellectual humility are two sides of the same coin."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 186S	The Rhetoric of Science	"Applies rhetorical theories and methods to scientific discourse in the public and academic sphere. Students develop an understanding of the relationship between research and writing, and they practice these skills by examining historical and current scientific debates and controversies. Through looking at case studies, students will gain an increased understanding of how, where, and when scientific research is influenced by (and influencing of) different audiences and communities. Students will examine and work with qualitative research methods, genre theory, rhetorical style, and multimodal compositions."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 187C	Russia at the Crossroads of East and West	"Examines Russian society, culture, and identity through eras of Tsarism, revolution, social engineering, war, and societal transformations. Explores Russia's distinctiveness - its place in the world, struggles, and successes - looking at how Russians themselves understand and contest this heritage. Examining the roots of Russian identity, students consider the images of leaders from Peter the Great to Stalin and Vladimir Putin, as well as the work and legacies of artists, writers, and composers. Another major focus is peoples' everyday lives during political and social upheavals. Students examine what life was like during the Stalinist 1930s, through the traumas of World War II (""The Great Patriotic War""), Perestroika in the 1980s, and the post-Soviet present. Students learn about the dynamic ways that culture, history, politics, and identity intertwine in any society."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 187S	The Things with Feathers	"Emphasizes an interdisciplinary approach to explore the historic journey of scientific studies of bird behavior and nature while celebrating the triumphs of these surprising and fiercely intelligent creatures. Students examine the study of intelligence of birds from behavior, brain mechanisms, to ecological and evolutionary adaptation. Students look at the history of ornithological study in the past centuries and examine the key social-cultural events and conceptual breakthroughs that advance scientific study of birds. Students also explore how these scientific findings can shed light on human behaviors and help us to better understand ourselves. Moreover, students examine the impacts of human-created environmental changes on the behavior, reproduction, and survival of these precious creatures, and how citizen science has helped contribute to numerous bird conservation projects."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 188C	The Iroquois	"Examines the archaeology, culture, history, economics, religion, literature, arts, politics, law, and individual lives of the Iroquois (Haudenosaunee) Indians - Hudson’s closest Native American neighbors - from the period before European contact to the present day. Students place Iroquois experiences in North American Indian contexts (comparing the Iroquois, e.g., to the Cherokee), especially regarding the loss and persistence of tribal sovereignty; and investigate Iroquois relations with New York State and the United States, especially in regard to competing land claims."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 188S	It's a Dog Life	"Dogs are a fascinating study organism. From their very beginnings their evolutionary history contains unpredicted effects across all levels of biological organization. From the social construct of being a wild animal (wolf), to becoming dependent on man (domestication), and colonizing our homes and our beds (inter-species bonding). The history of this single species provides a rich learning opportunity to introductory students. Readings and discussions include a brief introduction and exploration of most branches of biology, in an interdisciplinary manner: evolution, ecology, genetics, physiology, and behavior, with the underlying theme of how dogs are unique to each of those branches in biology. Emphasis is placed on the interaction between wild animals and early humans, and tracks that interaction through time as the domestication of the dog has progressed. Further exploration occurs on physiological aspects of canine biology that are beneficial for humans, for example, cancer research. Students are challenged to formulate questions about science and how science relates to the inter-species relationship we have created with “man’s best friend.”"		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 189C	Africa	"An introduction to the interdisciplinary study of Africa and to the African Studies major and minor at Hudson. The goal is to introduce students to a major world area with which many, even highly educated, Westerners are unfamiliar. Africa is the original home of the human species, and the intellectual contributions of the continent and its people to the concept of a common humanity are tremendous, including agricultural and industrial technologies, artistic and aesthetic principles, and religious and philosophical ideas. Due to early patterns of globalization and European colonization in the western hemisphere, the Atlantic slave trade, and ultimately colonialism on the continent itself, Africa was configured as “the Dark Continent” in European discourses of the nineteenth century."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 189S	Sleep	"Why do we sleep? Why do we dream? Do we really need to get 8 hours of sleep a night to perform our best? How is sleep affected by a person's neighborhood, job, family, or culture? Students will study the theories and empirical research that seek to answer these questions. The course begins examining sleep at multiple levels of analysis, including its biological underpinnings, methods of assessment, and developmental changes, as well as common sleep disorders and connections between sleep and learning, dreaming, and health. The second half of the course will address environmental influences on sleep and explore ways to improve sleep in diverse populations via intervention and policy."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 190C	South Africa	"Aims to provide students with an overview of the social, cultural, political, and economic dynamics that have shaped life in South Africa. Students and faculty work together to better understand the way in which the country of South Africa came into being, how that national identity has been a site of struggle and contestation, particularly in the case of the struggle to overcome Apartheid, and how South Africans are working to overcome the legacy of racism and oppression that has marked much of the social and cultural experience of South Africa. In doing so, students investigate the changing dynamics of race, gender, and culture in South Africa, with a particular focus on understanding the ways South Africans are actively reshaping and unsettling existing social identities and distinctions."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 191C	Spain	"Covers diverse aspects of ""Spanish"" society, history, and culture, past and present. Tracing Spain's cultural self-image and national identities through its encounters with war, fascism, democracy, and societal transformations during our global era, students explore its place in the world, its collective struggles, its encounters and negotiations of diversity, and how these have been understood and contested by ""Spaniards"" themselves. Drawing on fictional works, art, music, and ethnographic texts, a significant portion of the course examines peoples’ everyday lives in contexts of violence, war, and socio-cultural change. In sum, students grapple with an inherent paradox in the study of “Spain”: the failure to create a homogenous national identity and a coherent, commonly shared historical memory."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 191S	The Archaeology of Food	"Food is both a biological necessity and a social necessity. Sharing food builds and maintains social relationships, expresses identity, and is often a component of ritual practice. Students explores food in the distant and recent past from biological and cultural perspectives, from the relationship between food and evolution of our most distant hominin ancestors to contemporary foodways. Students use archaeological methods to study food in the past directly and indirectly. Course readings, discussions, activities, and lectures address major themes in anthropological research on food including: food and human evolution; food acquisition among hunter-gatherer-forager communities; the inception and spread of agriculture; feasting; and food and identity."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 192C	Native Americans in the SW	"Focusing on the words from people within the Pueblo, Apache, and Dine communities of what is now called the American southwest, this course introduces students to Native American intellectual traditions and their longstanding history. Works from poets, storytellers, educators, artists, scientists, tribal council members, elders are the heart of this course in a sustained consideration of interdependence, complementarity, and the vital interconnections across past and present that are held within specific places. Particular attention is given to the importance of the land, to language retention, and to the power of story as an interventionary force in colonialism and neocolonialism."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 192S	The Anthropocene: Earth Systems With and Without Us	"Temperatures are increasing, sea levels are rising, many species are on the move, and some have gone extinct. These changes in Earth’s environments profoundly shape our lives, influencing where we live, the food we eat, the work we do, and how we see ourselves and others. Geologists have proposed that we live in a new interval in the history of our planet, the Anthropocene, in which the activities of our species have transformed Earth systems in ways that will leave an indelible signature in the geologic record. How do we know that these environmental changes are underway and that humans are responsible? Students explore the scientific evidence for the Anthropocene, considering how Earth systems operate both with and without us. Students learn about the process of science by critically reading the scientific literature, by collecting, analyzing, and interpreting scientific data, by communicating scientific research to different audiences, and by considering the social context in which science is done."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE 193C	Brazil	"Examines communities and identities in Brazil, the largest nation in Latin America. Focuses on the formation of communities under the constraints of Portuguese colonialism, within slavery, in the vast interior of the country, under conditions of extreme violence and poverty, and in the realm of Brazil's vibrant popular culture. Particular attention is paid to the role of individuals in forming and maintaining communities, and to the complex processes of regional and national identity formation. Spans the colonial period to the present, with readings drawn from history, anthropology, literature, ethnography, and journalism, as well as a range of visual sources."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 195C	West Africa	"In contrast to Western journalists' focus on Africa's underdevelopment and widespread disease, West Africa stands out as an area of remarkably vibrant culture. West Africa has always been a space of much social interaction between its various peoples, with many shared cultural practices. In this course, students examine how the pre-colonial and colonial histories shaped social identities. Using an interdisciplinary approach, students analyze how people in West Africa express and reinvent their identities through art, music, dance, clothes, and food. The course draws further on film and literature to understand the specific experiences of West African peoples."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 197C	Tibet	"Examines the formation of a Tibetan identity. This is largely a recent phenomenon brought about unwittingly by the ethnocentric policies imposed throughout the Tibetan Plateau by the modern Chinese state. However, earlier processes were already under way before the People's Liberation Army entered Tibet in the 1950s, which made the transition from a constellation of feudal polities to a nation possible. These included a common written language, common subsistence patterns (farming, pastoralism, and trade), Buddhism, participation in common rituals and festivals (especially religious pilgrimage), a certain respect for the authority of the Dalai Lamas, and so on. Students examine these processes as well as the consequences of China's political and economic incorporation of Tibetan areas into its nascent nation-state. Specific topics to be explored include ""the Tibet Problem"" (i.e. contemporary Sino-Tibetan relations and conflict), the historic colonial and religious ties between China Proper and Tibet, religious life and everyday Tibetans, ""nomadism"" (or pastoralism), polyandry and women in Tibet, and Tibetans' encounter with modernity and the West."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 198C	Cuba	"Examines the complex geographic, historic, social, racial, literary, political, and artistic fabric of Cuba. Historical readings explore major themes of Cuban history, while literary and personal narratives provide insight into social and political realities. These themes are complemented by a study of Cuban film, dance, and music as agents of identity formation."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 199C	Bolivia	"A multidisciplinary look at communities and identities in Bolivia, a country in the heart of South America that has captured transnational attention for its Andean panpipe music, its majority indigenous population, and its social movements. The course uses music, dance, film, history, memoir, political documents, policy reports, anthropology, and journalism to grasp different community articulations in Bolivia. Along with historical understandings of Bolivian communities, the course takes a special look at thematic issues that, while locally grounded, have global resonances: indigenous rights, water, resource extraction, neoliberalism, coca and cocaine, and Andean music and dance."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE 400	Core Distinction Seminar: Head in the Clouds	"The goal of the distinction seminar is to complement honors work in departments and programs by giving select students the opportunity to reflect on the broader, interdisciplinary contexts of their honors projects. Through readings assigned by the seminar instructors, students explore the methodologies of their own and other disciplines. Each student writes a substantial interdisciplinary paper relevant to the student’s departmental honors work. This requirement may be satisfied in one of the following ways: 1) by extending a departmental honors project to explore interdisciplinary perspectives on the project topic or to examine the social implications or historical foundations of the project; 2) by self-consciously considering the generation and evaluation of knowledge in the major; or 3) by collaborating with one or more members of the seminar to explore themes common to the students’ departmental projects. To enroll in the distinction seminar, students must achieve a 3.33 (B+) or better GPA in the five Core components: Legacies of the Ancient World, Challenges of Modernity, Scientific Perspectives on the World, Communities and Identities, and Global Engagements. For students who repeat or complete multiple courses with a Common Core component, only the grade in the first course is considered. A cumulative grade for all Global Engagements courses completed is averaged in the Core GPA. To earn Distinction in the Liberal Arts Core, students must earn an A- or better in the distinction seminar and achieve an overall GPA of 3.33 or better at the time of graduation."		3				
CORE C137	Partition: The Division of British India	"The Partition of British India into India and Pakistan resulted in the movement of approximately 20 million people in 1947. The communities living in the region experience the aftershocks of Partition to this day, as evidenced by three major wars, countless peace efforts, and recent attempts to reunite separated families. Students aim to understand individuals’ lived experiences during Partition and how it affects the region today. The goal of the class is to explore a variety of perspectives of the Partition and its ripple effects across geography, time, caste and gender. Later in the semester parallels are drawn with conflicts and separations in other regions of the world, including Israel and Palestine, North and South Korea, and East and West Germany, while keeping the main focus on the Partition of India."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C138	Black Italy	"Examines the cultural, political, artistic, and historical intersections between Italy and Africa. Through literature, film, photography, and an interdisciplinary set of academic works, students consider how Italy's colonization of northeast Africa (1890-1941) shaped and continues to shape the country's national identity. With an emphasis on contemporary Italian fiction, coursework highlights Italy's ongoing struggles to come to terms with its colonial past in Africa. Students learn how the Italy-Africa nexus remains an essential part of some of today's most serious problems in the country, such as anti-Black racism in Europe, the ongoing refugee crisis in the Mediterranean, the resurgence of xenophobic populism, and other deep-seated patterns of inclusion and exclusion."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C140	Queer Origins	"Explores origin stories for LGBTQ identities and communities, tracing the emergence and histories of minoritized gender and sexuality categories. Challenging singular narratives about the development of LGBTQ identities and communities, students examine how disciplines such as psychology, anthropology, sociology, history, and epidemiology have asked and answered the question of queer origins. If queerness originates in individual pathology or early caretaking relations, or if queerness originates in biological morphology or genetics, or if queerness originates in social relations and organizing for the sake of building collectivity, the wide range of approaches taken to locate queerness and its origins have deeply shaped knowledge production about LGBTQ identities and communities. Students carry out an independent research project in which they research an LGBTQ community or identity and their origin stories."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C142	Addiction & Recovery	"Explores addiction and recovery through fiction, poetry, memoir, film, and psychological theory. Examines how intersections of gender, race, age, class, sexuality, and disability inform people’s experience of addiction and access to recovery. Coursework is designed to improve student’s ability to analyze complex texts and to situate them within their cultural, political, and historical contexts."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C143	"Jewish Diasporas: Ukraine, Moscow, Jerusalem, New York"	"Looks at the evolution of East European Jewry at the turn of the twentieth century, as a community with a single way of life finds itself in the vastly different environments of immigrant New York, Ottoman-era Palestine, and Soviet Russia. What stays the same and what changes? What is the fate of Marxist-inspired Jews in Palestine and in Soviet Russia? What happened, and what did they think as it happened? The course starts in the 1880s and ends in 1953 (the end of World War II, the formation of the State of Israel, the death of Stalin). The group we are studying is both a historical community, with roots going back 3,000 years, and a community of practice."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C145	Dirty South	"The Dirty South offers an interdisciplinary exploration of the rich history, cultural and aesthetic traditions, as well as the environmental and architectural landscapes that make up Black southern life in the United States. The course title, which is inspired by the Black southern vernacular phrase for the region, marks the course’s focus on the particularly diverse mixture of cross-cultural, diasporic traditions, beliefs and practices that define the south, from Virginia to Texas and all points in between. Course materials include readings that chronicle histories of slavery, Jim Crow, mass incarnation and gentrification, personal narratives that provide insights into historical and contemporary political realities and social movement organizing, and music, film, and visual art that lend an affective window into the sensory, spatial, and creative dimensions of the Black south. In addition to considering the profound social fabric of Black southern life and its larger impact on the United States, students also explore how this culture and region present a generative challenge to conventional notions that posit identity and geographical boundaries as clear and distinct categories."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C165	China	"China has the distinction of being one of the world’s oldest continuous cultures, with 5,000 years of rich, complex history. Today, it is also a rising international power with the second largest economy on the globe. Students approach China not as a monolithic entity, but as a complicated place and people best understood through diverse perspectives, including but not limited to history, economics, geography, literature, art, politics, environment, society, ethnicity, gender, migration, and diaspora. Students also gain indispensable research skills as they develop their own projects."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C166	India	"Offers a wide-ranging and challenging introduction to contemporary India--its famed social, political and cultural diversity, its conflicts and contradictions, its literature and history. India as it is known today, with its population of more than a billion, is a recent creation, a product of the partition of the South Asian colonies of the British Raj (Empire). How has such a diverse region come together, and been held together, as one nation? How have its conflicts and contradictions—of class, caste, ethnicity, language, religion and politics—been managed by its rulers and politicians? How have these conflicts and contradictions been captured in novels and on film? The course goal is to subject the “Idea of India” to a detailed investigation, beginning in the present, and working through a process of excavation, discovery, and critique."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C175	Wilderness	"A multidisciplinary engagement with the idea of wilderness and the lived experience of the people and communities that have been shaped and reshaped by the local, regional, and global forces involved in the conservation and preservation movements in the US and internationally. Students explore the lives of the, often, land-based or agrarian local peoples who, in the service of environmental protection, are excluded from places and social and economic activities that are tied to their identities and livelihoods. Reading and research topics include historical and contemporary case studies such as national parks, national forests, national monuments, wildlife refuges, and ocean preserves and the forces that have formed these places and changed the communities of practice that have access."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C180	Francophone and Creole Identities	"Martinique, a 400 square-mile island, is an official part of France today despite being 4200 miles away from mainland France. French is the official language but most Martinicans freely express themselves in Creole. The majority of Martinicans declare that they are, first and foremost, citizens of the French Republic, but also readily admit that they are Martinican by culture. What is striking about Martinique is the dizzying array of cultural signifiers that seem to coexist in a veritable braided community, in which it can be genuinely difficult to tell where one cultural identity strand ends and another begins. Martinique is thus a fabulous lens through which this process of negotiating and renegotiating of cultures, languages, and identities can be viewed, and can be considered a precursor to modern-day globalization."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C184	The Danube	"The Danube is Europe's second largest river: from its beginnings in the German Black Forest to the Romanian and Ukrainian shores where it meets the Black Sea, the Danube flows through and/or borders ten countries, while its watershed covers four more. The river serves as a unifying artery of economic, cultural, and international exchanges in the diverse region of central and southeastern Europe. The course structures its multidisciplinary inquiry around the river to examine the region's long-standing history as a neglected, maligned, and contested multilingual, multicultural, and multinational space. Culturally mapping the region by focusing on the river's peoples, their intertwined histories, and their cultural imaginaries, students trace the turbulent history of the region from antiquity, with an emphasis on the 19th century up to the present, to explore the Danube as a quintessential site of cross-cultural engagement in the New Europe."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C184L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to CORE C184.		0				
CORE C184X	The Danube/FLAC-German			0				
CORE C187	Russia at the Crossroads	"Examines Russian society, culture, and identity through eras of Tsarism, revolution, social engineering, war, and societal transformations. Explores Russia's distinctiveness - its place in the world, struggles, and successes - looking at how Russians themselves understand and contest this heritage. Examining the roots of Russian identity, students consider the images of leaders from Peter the Great to Stalin and Vladimir Putin, as well as the work and legacies of artists, writers, and composers. Another major focus is peoples' everyday lives during political and social upheavals. Students examine what life was like during the Stalinist 1930s, through the traumas of World War II (""The Great Patriotic War""), Perestroika in the 1980s, and the post-Soviet present. Students learn about the dynamic ways that culture, history, politics, and identity intertwine in any society."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C188	Haudenosaunee	"Examines the archaeology, culture, history, economics, religion, literature, arts, politics, law, and individual lives of the Iroquois (Haudenosaunee) Indians - Hudson’s closest Native American neighbors - from the period before European contact to the present day. Students place Iroquois experiences in North American Indian contexts (comparing the Iroquois, e.g., to the Cherokee), especially regarding the loss and persistence of tribal sovereignty; and investigate Iroquois relations with New York State and the United States, especially in regard to competing land claims."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C193	Brazil	"Examines communities and identities in Brazil, the largest nation in Latin America. Focuses on the formation of communities under the constraints of Portuguese colonialism, within slavery, in the vast interior of the country, under conditions of extreme violence and poverty, and in the realm of Brazil's vibrant popular culture. Particular attention is paid to the role of individuals in forming and maintaining communities, and to the complex processes of regional and national identity formation. Spans the colonial period to the present, with readings drawn from history, anthropology, literature, ethnography, and journalism, as well as a range of visual sources."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE C197	Tibet	"Examines the formation of a Tibetan identity. This is largely a recent phenomenon brought about unwittingly by the ethnocentric policies imposed throughout the Tibetan Plateau by the modern Chinese state. However, earlier processes were already under way before the People's Liberation Army entered Tibet in the 1950s, which made the transition from a constellation of feudal polities to a nation possible. These included a common written language, common subsistence patterns (farming, pastoralism, and trade), Buddhism, participation in common rituals and festivals (especially religious pilgrimage), a certain respect for the authority of the Dalai Lamas, and so on. Students examine these processes as well as the consequences of China's political and economic incorporation of Tibetan areas into its nascent nation-state. Specific topics to be explored include ""the Tibet Problem"" (i.e. contemporary Sino-Tibetan relations and conflict), the historic colonial and religious ties between China Proper and Tibet, religious life and everyday Tibetans, ""nomadism"" (or pastoralism), polyandry and women in Tibet, and Tibetans' encounter with modernity and the West."		3		Communities & Identities		
CORE S110	Discovering Biology:Evolution	"Examines some of the major questions that inform human understanding of the living world. Covering long-standing biological questions as well as questions emerging from the latest discoveries, students explore the great diversity of life and how organisms adapt and change. Students use this framework to tackle new and relevant issues arising from our study of biology. The approach is student-active and hands-on; students work together to explore a few of the mysteries of the natural world."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE S138	Advent of the Atomic Bomb	"Examines the scientific evolution of nuclear weapons and the historical context in which they were developed. World War II made urgent the exploitation of atomic power for military purposes. Topics include the scientific thought that made harnessing nuclear power possible, the political pressure that shaped that process, the ramifications of the bomb for science and politics during and immediately after the war, and the subsequent impact of nuclear bomb use on the population and the environment. Includes consideration of post-WWII developments of nuclear weapons, weapons testing, and nuclear power generation, with an emphasis on their environmental impact."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE S167	Living Well in a Climate Dystopia	"Climate science is largely retrospective, looking at centuries to millennia of climate records to infer trends and determine how the Earth system operates, while speculative fiction, particularly Cli-Fi, is fundamentally future-oriented, and provides a vehicle for exploring a range of possible scenarios and human responses to a climate system in flux. Coursework focuses on the science of climate change, the social choices involved in adaptation to climate change, and the literary practice of using fiction writing to explore the dilemmas inherent to living in the midst of a climate crisis. Students engage with Cli-Fi and climate science data products in order to explore how they would respond to a range of climate crises, basing their preparations for fictional climate scenarios in the science of Earth system processes, emerging climate adaptation strategies, and the social and ethical ""laboratory"" provided by creative writing."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE S194	Electrons and Our Civilization	"Since the early civilizations, phenomena associated with electric charges in various forms such as the lightning in the sky, static electricity, and northern lights have inspired human minds. However, it was only after the development of the modern scientific methods in the 16th and 17th century that the major discoveries related to electric charges and their flow was understood, which eventually led to the discovery of electrons in the 19th century. Those discoveries spurred humanity's quest to control the flow of electric charges for their own good. With electrons, humans created light without fire, were able to send long-distance messages, and developed computing devices. Within a span of about two hundred years after the first modern inventions associated with electrons, human civilization has completely been transformed. Structured around lectures, discussions, demonstrations, readings, and research assignments, students learn about the human endeavor to understand electrons and how that understanding has shaped our civilization. Following the historical timeline of major discoveries associated with electricity & magnetism, students learn about the process of scientific discoveries and the development of electronics through the stories of individuals behind major discoveries in the context of contemporary sociocultural structures. Furthermore, students learn about the ongoing impact of electronics beyond the consumer market and contemplate the future of electronics and hence, the future of human civilization."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE S195	"Networks: Friends, Terrorists, and Epidemics"	"A network, in its most basic form, is a collection of interconnected people or things. A friendship network, for example, is made up of individuals and their interactions. Indeed, networks are all around us, from the human brain to the internet to your circle of friends. All networks have an underlying order and adhere to basic mathematical laws. Understanding the structure and behavior of networks allows us to identify terrorists and halt disease outbreaks before they spread. Students are provided a broad overview of network science-including both the computational techniques as well as their applications and implications in biology, sociology, technology, and other fields. Students build networks in various fields, demonstrating that social networks, the internet, and cells are more alike than they are distinct, revealing crucial new insights into the world around us. Aside from the simple structural properties of real-world networks, topics covered include dynamic network activities, including epidemics, network robustness, and communities in networks. Students discuss the societal effects and implications of network analysis. Students have the opportunity to apply what they've learned about network science to real-world data sets of their choosing. Students are presented with an exciting glimpse of the next century of science in an inherently and increasingly interconnected world."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE S196	Environmental Science and Storytelling	"Earth is in the midst of unprecedented climate change driven by human activity colliding with complex environmental feedback. How do we know Earth's climate system and ecosystems are changing, and how will humans be affected? Students examine the science of environmental change through hands-on investigation of global change data from across Earth's land, air, water, and ecological systems, while also exploring how storytelling techniques and narrative analysis explain how we make sense of these changes and communicate them to ourselves and others. In this workshop-model course, students work together to develop scientific analysis and storytelling skills, tackling climate change science, environmental news stories, and personal interactions with the Earth from the global scale to their own home environment. Students investigate the causes of environmental change, the impacts of climate change on natural systems, the impact of climate change on humans, and the roles of interpretation, bias, lived experience, and different values systems on making sense of environmental scientific information."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
CORE S197	"Ethics, Algorithms, & AI"	"Machine-learning algorithms and autonomous systems introduce a wide range of morally significant questions: about rights, fairness, consent, accountability, trust, transparency, exploitation, and sustainability, among others. For example, are there moral costs to the design and training processes of such algorithms? ls it acceptable for an algorithm to classify people differently on the basis of things they have no control over, even if it's very accurate? How do we tell a machine we want its outcomes to be fair? What should we do when there is entrenched disagreement about moral values? More broadly, is it a problem if a machine-learning system develops a standard that is too complex to be recognizable as a human moral concept, or even understood by humans at all? If a machine reaches a certain level of sophistication, can it acquire moral status, e.g. responsibility for its decisions? Students consider questions like these systematically and philosophically, with knowledge of the predictive reasoning underlying such systems. Special attention is paid to the difficulty of narrowing the gap between mathematical precision and human intuition. Readings come from a range of fields: computer science, contemporary philosophy, statistics, cognitive science, and law."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
COSC 101	Introduction for Computing I	"An introduction to computer science through the study of programming utilizing the programming language Python. Topics include program control, modular design, recursion, fundamental data structures including lists and maps, and a variety of problem-solving techniques."	COSC	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Recommended for students in all disciplines who desire a rigorous introduction to computers and programming.
COSC 101L	Introduction for Computing I Lab	A weekly two-hour laboratory provides the opportunity to develop programming and design skills. Required corequisite to COSC 101.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 102	Introduction for Computing II	"A continuation of COSC 101 and the first course in the major. Develops advanced programming topics such as abstract data types and algorithms and their analyses. Abstract data structures may include lists, stacks, queues, and maps. The concepts of information hiding, data abstraction, and modular design are emphasized. Object-oriented programming is used throughout."	COSC	3	COSC 101 or equivalent programming experience.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 102L	Introduction for Computing II Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 102. This weekly two-hour laboratory includes the design and implementation of programs that illustrate the topics of the course.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 201	Computer Organization	"A study of the fundamental concepts of computer architecture. Topics include the representation of information, components of the computer and how they interact, microarchitecture and microprogramming, conventional machine and assembly language, and advanced architectures. Several types of computer design are reviewed; an ARM architecture is the subject of detailed study."	COSC	3	COSC 102 (may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 201L	Computer Organization Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 201. The laboratory is used to examine how different components of a computer's architecture can affect its performance.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 202	Data Structures and Algorithms	"Introduces foundational methods in the design and analysis of information-processing and problem-solving techniques. Asymptotic time and space complexity are used as an evaluation framework throughout. Data structures include maps, trees, and heaps. Algorithmic approaches include greedy, divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, and dealing with intractability. Graphs are used extensively, and important graph problems and their algorithms are examined closely."	COSC	3	COSC 102		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 202L	Data Structures and Algorithms Lab	"A weekly two-hour laboratory in which students develop and practice skills for algorithmic reasoning, design, and analysis and improve mathematical and technical writing through a variety of collaborative exercises."	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 203	Gadgets and Gizmos: the Hardware/Software Interface	"An introduction to programming and prototyping at the hardware-software interface. Topics may include electronic circuit prototyping, event-driven programming, real-time programming, environmental sensors and actuators, field-programmable gate arrays, printed circuit board layout design, cloud-based coordination, energy consumption and efficiency, control algorithms, reinforcement learning, loT security, and usability testing. Emphasis is on hands-on hardware development on platforms ranging from 8-pin microcontrollers to Arduino and Raspberry Pi single board computers."	COSC	3	COSC 102		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 204	Computing and Society	"Students attempt to understand and navigate the increasingly complex ethical landscape of issues embedded into and surrounding computer science. Along the way, students discover why ethics is an essential component of computer science and how historical and current power dynamics continue to shape ethical decision making in computing. Finally, students explore the responsibilities we have to our communities both as professional and citizen computer scientists."	COSC	3	COSC 102		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 208	Introduction to Computer Systems	"A study of the hardware and software infrastructure computer applications depend on. Topics include the C programming language, data storage and representation, hardware organization, assembly, memory locality and caching, multiprocessing and synchronization, and networking."	COSC	3	COSC 102		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 208L	Introduction to Computer Systems Lab	"A weekly two-hour laboratory that focuses on the design, implementation, and analysis of computer systems and the applications that depend on them."	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 290	Discrete Structures	"Introduces discrete computational structures, methods, and concepts utilized throughout computer science. Topics may include types, relations, functions, equivalence and congruence relations, recursion, order relations, partially ordered sets, lattices, Boolean algebras, logic, semi-groups, monoids, morphisms, languages, graphs, trees, finite state machines, counting, and probability."	COSC	3	COSC 102		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 290L	Discrete Structures Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 290.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 301	Operating Systems	"Introduces students to the study of operating systems. Topics include the hardware/software interface, scheduling, resource allocation, memory and storage management, the scope and nature of services provided to applications, and system performance evaluation."	COSC	3	COSC 102 and COSC 201 (COSC 201 may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 301L	Operating Systems Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 301.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 302	Analysis of Algorithms	"Provides a conceptual framework within which both theoretical and concrete analyses of computer algorithms may be developed. Topics to be covered include: time and space complexity; graph algorithms; problem-solving techniques including divide-and-conquer, greedy algorithms, and dynamic programming; intractability; and approximation."	COSC	3	COSC 290		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Previous completion of COSC 290 is strongly recommended.
COSC 302L	Analysis of Algorithms Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 302.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 304	Theory of Computing	"Introduces the different models of computation and focuses attention on the relative strength of each model and the relationship of one model to another. Concepts introduced include type theory, finite automata, regular expressions and languages, context-free grammars, push-down automata, Turing machines and their schema, diagonalization arguments, Church's Thesis, the Halting problem, and computational complexity."	COSC	3	COSC 290		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 304L	Theory of Computing Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 304.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 311	"Security, Privacy and Society"	"A survey of influential topics in computer security and privacy with an emphasis on how they affect individuals and societies. Security topics include applied cryptography, identity management, network security, website security, operating systems security, and side channel attacks. Privacy topics include web tracking, anonymous browsing, database (de)anonymization, mobile and IoT data collection, contextual integrity, useable privacy, and privacy regulation. Students learn technical details of security and privacy vulnerabilities and defenses, practice programming and testing computer systems to detect and prevent vulnerabilities, and discuss the influence of human behavior and societal factors on security and privacy."	COSC	3	COSC 202 and COSC 208		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 311L	"Security, Privacy and Society Lab"	"Discussion-based laboratory and required corequisite to COSC 311: Security, Privacy, and Society. Students read contemporary accounts of security and privacy incidents, prepare discussion questions, and engage in debates about the technical and societal factors underlying these case studies."	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 410	Applied Machine Learning	"Provides a practical introduction to applied machine learning. Students engage in supervised and unsupervised machine learning algorithms, including regression, support vector machines, decision trees, nearest neighbors, clustering, and ensemble methods. Students also learn deep learning techniques, including feedforward, convolutional, and recurrent neural networks. Emphasis is placed on understanding and gaining hands-on experience with machine learning for practical use."	COSC	3	COSC 202		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 410L	Applied Machine Learning Lab	Required corequisite lab to COSC 410.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 415	Software Engineering	"Introduces students to the practice of software engineering by creating software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications. An integral part of the course is for students working in small groups to take a Saas project from conception through planning, development, testing, and deployment. Student groups are normally paired with a local non-profit with a need that can be addressed through a new or modified Saas application. The project will be developed using a modern application framework (e.g., Ruby on Rails) and deployed using a cloud provider such as Heroku. Through the course and project, students will learn and use Agile methodologies and tools, including user stories, behavior- and test- driven development, pair programming, version control for team-based development, and continuous integration. Moreover, students will learn and apply fundamental programming constructs and techniques including design patterns for software architecture, higher-order functions, metaprogramming, and reflection, to improve the maintainability, modularity and reusability of their code."	COSC	3	COSC 208 or COSC 301		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 415L	Software Engineering Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 425.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 435	Computer Graphics	"An introduction to the concepts and techniques of interactive computer graphics. A broad spectrum of subjects including picture generation and display, geometry modeling and representation (including hierarchical models), illumination models, ray tracing, and the design of user interfaces are covered."	COSC	3	COSC 301		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 435L	Computer Graphics Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 435.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 460	Database Management Systems	"Introduces the principles underlying modern database systems. These principles guide how information is represented as structured data, how computations on the data are expressed in query languages, and how systems are designed to enable efficient computation on large data sets. Topics include database design, data models, query languages, query processing and optimization, data storage and access, transaction management, and advanced topics as time permits."	COSC	3	COSC 290 and COSC 301		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 460L	Database Management Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 460.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 465	Computer Networks	"Introduces the fundamental concepts in computer networks. Topics include layered network architecture, error detection and correction, medium access control, routing, congestion control, and internetworking. If time permits, the following advanced topics may also be included: network security, multimedia, multicast, and wireless networking."	COSC	3	COSC 208		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Some knowledge of differential calculus and elementary probability and statistics is helpful.
COSC 465L	Computer Networks Lab	Students complete weekly laboratory assignments in which they build network applications and implement increasingly complex network protocols in order to gain a deeper understanding of topics covered in class. Required corequisite to COSC 465.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 470	Human-Computer Interaction	"Student learning is organized around three broad topic areas: 1) human-computer interaction design principles, 2) techniques for designing interactive systems, and 3) techniques for evaluating the efficacy of your designs. Topics may include user experience (UX) and interaction design (IxD), needfinding, rapid prototyping, identifying “Dark UX” patterns, cognitive task analysis, affinity diagramming, usability testing, heuristic evaluation, contextual inquiry, user interviews, surveys, wire-framing, and A/B Testing."	COSC	3	COSC 202 or COSC 208 or COSC 290		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 470L	Human-Computer Interaction Lab	Required corequisite lab for COSC 470.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 480	Topics in Computer Science: Natural Language Processing	"Natural Language Processing systems (i.e., computational models capable of processing human languages) are ubiquitous in our daily lives. Internet search, translation systems, autocorrect, hate speech or fake news detectors all require computational systems that can comprehend human language. How can we build such systems and how can we evaluate whether the systems we build are truly comprehending human language? Students use a variety of techniques (such as n-gram models, Bayesian classifiers and neural networks) to build NLP systems. For each system built, students also confront its limitations by identifying and evaluating the system on critical edge cases."	COSC	3	COSC 202		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 480L	Topics in Computer Science: User Interfaces Lab	Required corequisite to COSC 480.	COSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 482	Ind: Authentic Ml	Opportunity for research-based individual study under the guidance of a member of the faculty. Research methods in the particular area of study and investigation of current literature are also addressed. This course may count as one of the electives for the COSC major; this course may only be taken once for major credit.	COSC	3	COSC 202 or COSC 208 or COSC 290 and permission of Instructor		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
COSC 492	Honors Research	Opportunity for honors-level research-based individual study under the guidance of a member of the faculty. Research methods in the particular area of study and investigation of current literature are also addressed. This course is graded on a satisfactory/unsatisfactory basis. Students who pass with a grade of S earn department graduation honors. Successful completion of a written thesis and presentation to the department qualifies the student for high honors at graduation. This course may not count as one of the electives for the COSC major.	COSC	3	COSC 482 and instructor permission		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ECON 105	Principles of Accounting	"A study of the fundamental principles underlying financial accounting and reporting. Emphasis is on analysis, interpretation, and understanding of accounting information, and how such information influences management decision-making. Recommended as a tool course, this course does not count toward the major, minor, or Area of Inquiry requirements."	ECON	3				
ECON 151	Introduction to Economics	A general introduction to the subject matter and analytical tools of economics including micro- and macroeconomic theory.	ECON	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 206	Marxian Political Economy	"An introduction to the principles of Marxian political economy, including the labor theory of value, the theory of money, the analysis of accumulation and expanded reproduction, and the theory of economic crisis. It includes readings from Marx and modern writers on his theories."	ECON	3	ECON 151 or FSEM 180 or FSEM 181 or FSEM 179		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 219	Chinese Economy	"Using an interdisciplinary approach, this course provides a general survey of China's economic reform and related public policy issues since 1978. In addition to offering a basic knowledge about the Chinese economy and its reforms in the past quarter century, the course develops a framework to help students understand and evaluate the evolution of China's economic development strategy and public policy in recent years that has guided the country's economic reform."	ECON	3	ECON 151 or FSEM 180 or FSEM 181	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 228	Environmental Economics	"An introduction to the study of environmental problems with the perspective and analytical tools of economics. Sources of market failure with respect to environmental issues are discussed, and methods for analyzing environmental policies are developed. These tools are applied to current issues of pollution, resource use, and sustainability."	ECON	3	ECON 151		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 233	Economics of Immigration	"Explores the economic causes and consequences of immigration using theoretical and empirical perspectives. Importantly, the migration experience relates to the residents of both origin and destination countries. Course coverage pertaining to migrants and their source countries might include immigrant selection, assimilation, and the consequences of brain drain. Coverage related to residents of receiving countries might include the fiscal and labor market effects of immigration. The course is of particular interest to student wanting to examine economic policy, labor, and productivity questions."	ECON	3	ECON 151	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 233R	SRS: Research & Reflection		ECON	1				
ECON 234	Gender in the Economy	An examination of the role of gender in our economic system. This course studies the causes and implications of sexual division of labor and the dynamic relationship of production and reproduction in a historical and contemporary context. A critical analysis of the implicit and explicit gender bias of the discourse of economics is an integral part of this course.	ECON	3	ECON 151 or FSEM 180 or FSEM 181		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 238	Economic Development	"Explores the content of economic development. Examines both the successes of the developed world and the limits of development elsewhere. Specific topics include the role of population growth, the importance of agriculture, structural change, and globalization."	ECON	3	ECON 151	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 249	International Economics	"Studies the underlying forces affecting economic relations among nations. Material will address both microeconomic and macroeconomic perspectives. Potential topics include the international mobility of goods, labor, and capital; economic growth and development; balance of payments; and exchange rate determination. Not open to students who have completed ECON 349. ECON, MAEC, and ENEC majors interested in international economics are strongly encouraged to enroll in ECON 349."	ECON	3	ECON 151 or FSEM 180 or FSEM 181 with a grade of C or better.	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 251	Intermediate Microeconomics	A systematic development of the theory of consumer and firm behavior and pricing in markets. Emphasis is placed on the uses and limitations of some general methods of economic analysis. Majors and minors must earn a grade of C or better.	ECON	3	ECON 151		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	MATH 161 or equivalent
ECON 252	Intermediate Macroeconomics	"A systematic development of the theory for determining national income, employment, and the general levels of prices and interest rates. Analysis of recent U.S. macroeconomic events is included. Majors and minors must earn a grade of C or better."	ECON	3	ECON 151		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	MATH 161 or its equivalent
ECON 314	Industrial Organization	"A study of the relationship between market structure, business conduct, and economic performance. Topics include the structure of American industry, oligopolistic pricing theory, product differentiation, research and development, and mergers."	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 320	Law and Economics	"An introduction to law and economics. Standard economic theory is used to examine the law and legal institutions, and to study the origin, nature, and consequences of the ""rules of the game"" as they pertain to individual and group behavior. Questions addressed in this course include the following: How does the legal system shape economic incentives in ways that lead to socially optimal or sub-optimal behavior? How does one measure the benefits and costs of changes in legal rules? What is the nature of private property in a market economy? What is the appropriate role of a legal system in settling private disputes?"	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 336	The Economics of Sports	"Although athletics have played an important cultural, religious, and martial role in societies throughout history, the commercialization of sports is a much more recent phenomenon. Students apply economic theory and empirical methodology to the analysis of sports in order to examine the interactions between sports and economics, including the institutions that organize sports and the unique economic data made available by sporting contests. The specific fields of economics covered in this course include industrial organization, public finance, labor economics, and game theory. Special consideration will also be given to discussions of the economics of collegiate and amateur sports."	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 339	The Japanese Economy	"A survey of the empirical and theoretical literature on various aspects of the Japanese economy. Topics include comparison of the Japanese labor market with the U.S. labor market, keiretsu and the economic conflict between the U.S. and Japan, industrial policies and the Japanese ""miracle,"" international comparison of the saving rate and the cost of capital, ""multiskilling"" and technological changes, participatory management practices and performance of the Japanese firm, and other issues of current interest."	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	Previous completion of ECON 375 recommended.
ECON 340	Behavioral and Exp. Economics	"Behavioral economics has significantly changed the way economists view the world. It encompasses approaches that extend the standard economic framework to incorporate features of human behavior emphasized in other sciences, such as sociology and psychology. Behavioral economics then uses experiments to obtain empirical evidence to develop economics models that more accurately describe the way people actually behave. Students will be asked to contrast the material they learned in intermediate microeconomics with empirical and experimental evidence, which will inform new ways of modelling and thinking about individual economic behavior. The course will encompass applications to other fields of economics, possibly including public economics, development, game theory, health, and policy."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and (CORE 143S or FSEM 144 or ECON 375 or MATH 102 or MATH 105 or MATH 316 or MATH 317 or MATH 416 or PSYC 309)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 344	Public Economics	"Examines the ""proper"" role of government in a market economy by looking at both the expenditure and the taxation sides. Topics on the expenditure side include market failure, public goods, and cost-benefit analysis; on the taxation side, notions of tax equity, principles of tax incidence, efficient taxation, and the tax structure in the United States are addressed."	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 345	Games and Strategies	"Some decisions in life are simple. Others are more complicated. Game theory is the study of decisions that are complicated by strategic interactions, situations where making the best choice requires taking into account the decisions being made by others. This course presents the basic concepts of game theory and applies those concepts to a variety of microeconomic topics. Some of the applications examined include oligopoly behavior, auctions, political elections, moral hazard, principal-agent models, bargaining, and evolutionary models. Students also examine experimental evidence that sometimes confirms, and sometimes conflicts with the predictions from game theory."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and (MATH 105 or MATH 316 or CORE 143S or FSEM 144) and (MATH 161 or MATH 162 or MATH 163) or high school calculus.		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 347	Latin American Econ History	"Explores the economic history of Latin America with emphasis on the period from Independence to the Present. Specific topics include colonial institutions, state-building, mass migration and the first globalization, the inter-war era, import-substitution-industrialization, and neoliberalism."	ECON	3	ECON 151 and ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 348	Health Economics	"Applies economic principles and tools to study the health-care market. Looks at the structure, cost, and distribution of resources within the health-care sector. Focuses on the socio-economic determinants of health, demand and supply of health insurance, hospital competition, physician practice, government intervention in the health-care market, and comparisons of health-systems around the world."	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 349	Topics in International Trade	"Designed to provide students with a deep understanding of international trade theories and policies. Topics include the theory of comparative advantage; trade under increasing returns; welfare implications of trade policies such as tariffs, quotas, and antidumping duties; political economy of trade policies; trade and migration, outsourcing, and environment; and global trading arrangements such as NAFTA and the WTO."	ECON	3	ECON 251	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 351	International Finance and Open-Economy Macroeconomics	"An in-depth study of the theoretical and empirical literature of international finance and open economy macroeconomics. Topics include the balance of payments, the foreign exchange market, financial globalization, optimum currency areas and financial crises."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 352	Money and Banking	"Studies the economic functions and efficiency of financial institutions and markets in the United States. Analytical tools are used to study the development and structure of asset markets, central banking and the role of monetary policy, regulation of markets and financial institutions, and risk. Students use case studies to focus on both historical and current events in the domestic and international financial systems."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 353	Fed Challenge	"A small group of selected students works together with faculty mentors to compete with teams from other colleges and universities in the Fed Challenge, a national competition that is hosted and judged by the U.S. Federal Reserve System. The goal of the course is to develop a presentation that summarizes the current state of the U.S. macroeconomy, understand its current weaknesses and threats, and make a monetary policy recommendation. To prepare for the presentation, students research and summarize the U.S. macroeconomic data, analyze historical and international macroeconomic episodes and their policy responses, and make and justify a specific recommendation regarding U.S. monetary policy."	ECON	3	ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 355	Advanced Macroeconomics	Designed to teach students the theoretical foundations of advanced macroeconomic models. These models are used to help better understand different aspects of the economy. Emphasis is on the dynamic macroeconomic models that require the use of a higher level of mathematics than the models taught in ECON 252.	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and (MATH 163 or MATH 113)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 356	Growth and Distribution	"An overview of the theory, measurement, and history of economic growth that presents classical, Keynesian, and neoclassical approaches in parallel. Topics include the theory of optimal saving, endogenous technical change, growth accounting, natural resource limits on growth, money and growth, and the impact of government debt and social security systems on long-term economic growth."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 357	Advanced Microeconomic Theory	"Explores how consumers and firms allocate their scarce resources in order to maximize well-being and profits, respectively, and how these choices interact in a market. This course incorporates additional mathematical rigor into the economic models assuming competitive markets and perfect information first developed in ECON 251. The course then relaxes these simplifying assumptions to explore models of imperfect competition, uncertainty in decision-making, asymmetries in information, and public goods and externalities that require more rigorous mathematical analysis."	ECON	3	ECON 151 and ECON 251 and ECON 252 and MATH 163		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	MATH 214
ECON 360	Applied Economic Theory	"The goal of this course is to illustrate to students the role that economic theory can play in understanding current events and important policy debates. Students use relevant theoretical concepts learned in both ECON 251 and 252, and reviewed in this course, to further their understanding of, and to help them to form opinions on, some important contemporary issues and economic debates. Examples of covered topics might include the proposal to privatize Social Security, differing unemployment rates in the United States and Europe, evaluating welfare reform, the increase in the incidence of personal bankruptcy, the IMF's role in stabilizing the international financial system, the government's role in providing public education, and the causes of growing U.S. wage inequality. Theoretical concepts that might be utilized include information theory, overlapping generations models, growth models, game theory, and theories of market failure."	ECON	3	ECON 251		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 368	American Economic History	"An analysis of selected issues in American economic development using the tools of economics. Topics include basic history of growth and structure since colonial times, population and migration, the labor force, agriculture, money and banking, transportation, slavery, the Civil War, industry studies, the Great Depression, and the growth of the government sector and regulation. Basic economic and demographic theories are applied to historical events."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 369	History of Economic Thought	"A survey of the evolution of economic doctrine and theory from ancient times through the present. Emphasis is on the predecessors of neo-classical economics, but attention is paid to alternative developments. The ideas of economists such as Richard Cantillon, François Quesnay, Adam Smith, David Ricardo, Thomas Malthus, John Stuart Mill, Karl Marx, Leon Walras, William Stanley Jevons, Alfred Marshall, and John Maynard Keynes are studied in historical and philosophical context."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 370	European Economic Issues	"An in-depth study of European open economy macroeconomics, international trade, and international finance. Coverage varies from year to year depending on the director of the London Economics Study Group."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 374	Mathematical Economics	An introduction to some basic topics and methods of mathematical economics. Emphasis is on the role of optimization techniques in economic models.	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and (MATH 113 or MATH 163)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 375	Applied Econometrics	An introduction to regression analysis and related statistical methods used to estimate and test relationships among economic variables. Selected applications from microeconomics and macroeconomics are studied. Emphasis is on identifying when particular methods are appropriate and on interpreting statistical results. A minimum grade of C is required for completion of the economics major.	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and (CORE 143S or MATH 105 or MATH 316 or FSEM 144) and (MATH 161 or MATH 162 or MATH 163)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 375L	Applied Econometrics Lab	Required corequisite to ECON 375.	ECON	0			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 381	Labor Economics	Theoretical and empirical analysis of the labor market; the employment system; human resource management; and the relevant public policy issues. Topics include labor demand and minimum wage law; labor supply and welfare programs; compensating wage differentials and safety and health regulations; wage structure and income inequality; investment in human capital and education; discrimination and affirmative action; personnel economics and economics of human resource management; immigration; and other issues of current interest.	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 (ECON 375 may be taken concurrently)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 383	Natural Resource Economics	"Study of the optimal allocation of scarce natural resources under conditions of imperfect markets. This course is intended for students interested in applying microeconomic theory to public policy questions regarding natural resources. Topics include environmental quality, policy, and regulation; renewable resources (fisheries, forests, and water resources); and non-renewable resources (global warming, energy use, and mineral extraction)."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 385	Advanced Econometrics	"Covers econometrics at a more advanced level than ECON 375 (Applied Econometrics), with more focus on econometric theory, including formal analysis of statistical properties of estimators. Students will also explore advanced topics of the instructor’s choice. Such topics could include panel data, nonlinear econometric models, nonparametric econometrics, or time series."	ECON	3	ECON 375 and MATH 163		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 387	Financial Economics	"Covers topics in financial economics with a focus on corporate finance. Major themes include basic financial statement analysis and modeling, valuation and capital budgeting, risk, and capital structure and dividend policy. Emphasis will be placed on analyzing and testing theories with empirical projects and presentations."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 (ECON 375 may be taken concurrently)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 410	Seminar in Gender and Development	"A seminar that examines the lives of women and men in developing countries and how the process of economic development affects them differently. Coursework begins from the household and covers topics on health, education and work options. Papers covered include seminal work that established gender differences in outcomes, as well as more recent perspectives on these differences. Students then cover papers on the origins of gender inequality, and end by studying the impact of decreasing gender inequality, especially when inequality decreases in leadership."	ECON	3	ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 414	Sem: Industrial Organization	"Contemporary issues involving government policy and the private sector. Major topics include anti-trust policy, public utility regulation, the regulation of transportation and communications, and deregulation."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 314 and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 420	Seminar in Law and Economics	"Applies standard economic theory to law and legal institutions and studies the origin, nature, and consequences of the ""rules of the game"" as they pertain to individual and group behavior. Students explore both the advantages and the limitations of the economic approach to law. Topics covered at are at the frontier of contemporary research in law and economics."	ECON	3	ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 421	Seminar in Economics of Education	"Examines education from an economic perspective. Economic theories and tools of statistical inference are employed to understand people's education investment choices and education policies. Topics covered might include human capital theory and signaling theory of education; pecuniary and non-pecuniary returns to education; the role of early childhood education; educational equity; the role of peer effects, class size, and school expenditures; K-12 school reforms and debates in recent decades (accountability, school choice and affirmative action)."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 433	"Seminar in Economics of Race, Ethnicity, and Migration"	"This seminar studies how several economic fields--possibly including labor economics, public economics, economic growth and development, and international trade--have contributed to economists' understanding of economic issues related to race, ethnicity, and migration. Topics might include discrimination, disparities in economic outcomes across groups, the macroeconomic benefits and costs of diversity and segregation, and the responses of native-born workers to immigration. Other topics may be considered as well."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 436	Seminar in Sports Economics	"This seminar is an advanced study of the interactions between sports and economics, including the institutions that organize sports and the unique economic data made available by sporting contests. The specific fields of economics covered in the seminar include labor economics, industrial organization, public finance, and game theory. Special consideration is also given to discussions of the economics of collegiate and amateur sports."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 438	Seminar in Economic Development	"Advanced study of economic development. Specific topics in economic development are considered, including poverty, micro-finance, networks, health, education, agriculture, migration, growth and other issues of current interest. Measurement tools common in development economics may be analyzed, such as randomized control trials and lab-in-the-field experiments."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 443	Seminar in Policy Evaluation	"The goal of this seminar is to explore the role of economic theory and empirical research in designing appropriate public policies and evaluating their effects, through a critical reading of empirical studies and discussions of relevant theories and findings. Topics may include environmental legislation, taxation and redistribution, public health, government regulation, education, public provisions, and crime."	ECON	3	ECON 375 and ECON 251 and ECON 252		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 450	Seminar in International Economics	"An advanced study of selected international economic problems, with special reference to the role of theories in the understanding and solution of such problems. Emphasizes current issues in trade policy: the rules of the WTO; foreign investment, debt, and the operations of MNCs; the appropriateness of particular saving, investment, trade balances, and exchange rates; and the macroeconomic coordination efforts of the IMF and the G-7."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 and (ECON 249 or ECON 349 or ECON 351)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 468	Seminar in American Economic History	"Advanced study of selected issues in American economic history, with emphasis on the 19th and 20th centuries. Topics change from year to year. Topics covered include the economics of the Antebellum South and the Civil War, the Great Depression, the development of labor markets, the demographic evolution of the United States, agriculture, industry and transport since colonial times, and money, banking, and financial markets."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 and ECON 368		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 474	Sem: Mathematical Economics	"Explores selected topics from mathematical economics with a main focus in the area of advanced microeconomic theory, advanced macroeconomic theory, or game theory. Topics in microeconomic theory include the primitives of preferences and consumer choice, general equilibrium, externalities and public goods, and the theory of incomplete information as applied to principal-agent models. Topics in advanced macroeconomic theory include dynamic models of long-run economic growth, real business cycle theory, and dynamic stochastic general equilibrium applications. Topics in game theory include static and dynamic games of both complete and incomplete information with applications to various fields of economics."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 and (ECON 378 or ECON 374)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 475	Seminar in Econometrics	"Advanced study of econometric methods, with an emphasis on their theoretical underpinnings. Topics include the statistical properties (in particular, expected value, variance, and probability limit) of estimators, consequences of different underlying assumptions, and advanced methods not covered in ECON 375."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and (ECON 355 or ECON 357 or ECON 374) and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 481	Seminar in Labor Economics	"Advanced study of selected issues in labor economics emphasizes recent developments in the field. Topics may include efficiency wage, fair wage, and gift exchange; compensation methods including pay for performance, profit sharing, team incentives, stock option, and employee ownership; gender and careers; peer effects; executive compensation and corporate governance; and other issues of current interest."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 and (ECON 234 or ECON 339 or ECON 340 or ECON 381)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 483	Seminar in Resource and Environmental Economics	"An advanced study of current resource and environmental issues. Explores the reasons for, and the welfare implications of, some of the pressing resource and environmental issues facing humankind today. Topics may include climate change and its economic impacts; the role of externalities and public goods in the economy; and the economic analysis of environmental policies. The economic, scientific, and political framework surrounding the issues is explored."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 and (ECON 228 or ECON 328 or ECON 383)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 484	Seminar in Applied Macroeconomics	"One or more of the following topics are studied: current U.S. stabilization policies; policy simulation analysis and forecasting using macroeconomic models; and advanced analysis of inflation, unemployment, income distribution, and economic growth."	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 487	Seminar in Financial Economics	Broadly surveys research in financial intermediation. The unifying theme throughout the semester will be credit allocation by banks and non-bank financial institutions in the mortgage market.	ECON	3	ECON 251 and ECON 252 and ECON 375 and (ECON 332 or ECON 387)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 489	Preparation for Honors Seminar: Special Problems in Economics	Designed for senior majors who are eligible for departmental honors (or high honors). Each seminar member plans and writes an honors thesis under the general guidance and supervision of a faculty member. Seminar members present their work to the group and act as discussants of each other's work. Enrollment in both terms is necessary for course credit. This course is taken for no course credit in the fall and uses the satisfactory/unsatisfactory (S/U) grading option.	ECON	0			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 490	Honors Seminar: Special Problems in Economics	Designed for senior majors who are eligible for departmental honors (or high honors). Each seminar member plans and writes an honors thesis under the general guidance and supervision of a faculty member. Seminar members present their work to the group and act as discussants of each other's work. Enrollment in both ECON 489 and ECON 490 is necessary for course credit. This course is taken under the satisfactory/unsatisfactory (S/U) grading option.	ECON	3	ECON 489		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ECON 591	Introduction to Economics		ECON	3				
EDUC 101	The American School	"An introductory analysis of American education. Readings from varied texts provide exposure to cultural, political, historical, philosophical, and social foundations of schooling, contemporary problems, and the possible future of American education."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 202	The Teaching of Reading	"An introduction to the process of reading, and to reading in elementary and secondary schools. This course is designed primarily for students in the Teacher Preparation Program. Students study theories of language acquisition and the development of reading skills as well as critical literacy and new literacy studies. Students explore a variety of approaches to the teaching of reading as practiced in schools and strategies of reading necessary to read in content areas. This course satisfies 7-30 of the 100 required school-based fieldwork hours for students seeking teacher certification."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 204	Child and Adolescent Development	"An introduction to theory and research in physical, psychosocial, cognitive, and moral development during the periods typically defined as childhood and adolescent years. The focus is on the nature of interaction between the individual and their social, physical, and cultural environments. Educating autobiographical knowledge is an important aspect of the course, where students are asked to engage with and reexamine aspects of their own upbringing. Students are encouraged to investigate and contest theories about child and adolescent development, connecting these to ideas about how schools do and should educate."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 205	"Race, White Supremacy, and Edu"	"An examination of how the concepts of race, ethnicity, and culture play, have played, and continue to play a major role in the American educational system. Students study issues such as white supremacy, social justice, racial and ethnic identity, immigration, integration (desegregation/resegregation), race relations, socioeconomic inequality, language programs, and transformative education. In order to engage in critical dialogue, a wide range of educational research, theory, and policies concerning these issues are explored."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 205R	SRS: Research & Reflection		EDUC	1				
EDUC 207	Inclusive and Special Education	"An introduction to foundational concepts, theories, and strategies of inclusive education and disability studies. Students develop a critical understanding of ability/disability in educational contexts and will learn the tools of classroom analysis and instruction necessary to teach all learners in inclusive (general education) settings. Approaches disability as a form of diversity, asking students to question and analyze constructs of normalcy and exceptionality that underpin traditional special education discourses and practices. Historical, legal, and cultural perceptions and experiences of disability are examined, and attention is given to how and why identification, placement, and evaluation of disability occur within education. Teacher candidates are required to complete school-based fieldwork hours in conjunction with this course."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 214	Theories of Teaching and Learning	An exploration of how selected cognitive theorists have defined learning and a critical examination of how teachers teach. Questions asked include the following: What is learning? How does a teacher’s definition of learning influence how he or she actually teaches? What are current ideas about effective teaching for all students to learn? Students in the course are asked to examine their own assumptions about these issues and engage in teaching both in and out of this class. This class satisfies 10–30 hours of the 100 required school-based fieldwork for students seeking teacher certification.	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 214L	TPP Observation Hours	Observation hours for students in the teacher preparation program.	EDUC	0				
EDUC 219	Education-Peace & Nonviolence	"Begins by thinking against the historical privileging of reason over emotions. Framed through a variety of feminist, queer, and decolonial voices, this class will, first and foremost, ask us to reconsider the epistemic value of feeling as a site of knowledge production when considering practices of peace and education. Using case studies of dehumanizing practices, the class opens up space to reflect on how we might reconsider thinking politically and ethically through alternative cosmologies."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 226	Uses and Abuses of Educational Research	"Prepares students to critically analyze how research has been utilized—for better or for worse—by scholars who study education, schooling, and young people. Instead of asking “How does one do research?”, students focus our inquiry on a broader set of questions about research within the field of educational studies. Namely: What is research? Who does research and/or who gets researched? What does research produce? What is the relationship between research and knowledge? Research and truth? Research and power? How has research been done? Who has it traditionally served? And what does research do? By asking these (and other) questions about what comprises “research”, students engage in unpacking how it is we see, observe, perceive, and analyze the educational worlds around us, specifically through the lenses of race, gender, class, sexuality, Indigeneity, and ability. Because educational studies is a field that investigates how and what we learn and because research, put succinctly, deals with the production and reproduction of knowledges, studying research through the field of Educational Studies allows us to study how we learn about knowledge itself."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 231	Inquiry Based Teaching in the Schools	"An opportunity to connect theory to pragmatic issues of teaching. Students observe and teach lessons in a local school setting with students, preferably at a high needs designated district. The course interrogates the following questions: (1) How do students learn? (2) How do teachers reach all students? (3) How do school environments inform teaching and learning? These questions are embedded in genuine contexts of a school, which is itself working in state and federal educational bureaucracies. This class satisfies 10–30 hours of the 100 required school-based fieldwork for students seeking teacher certification."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 231L	TPP Observation Hours	Observation hours for students in the teacher preparation program.	EDUC	0				
EDUC 241	Queering Education	"LGBTQ youth have traditionally been marginalized in schools. K-12 education offers few curricular and institutional spaces where queer identities are affirmed and queer voices are heard. From sex education to the prom, most schools and educators operate under the ahistorical guise of heteronormativity--a term used to describe ideologies and practices that organize and privilege opposite-sex gender relations and normative gender and sexual identities. Using critical lenses developed by queer and feminist theorists and critical pedagogues, this course seeks both to explore how heteronormativity operates in a variety of educational spaces and how students and educators are confronting these processes by using schools as sites of resistance."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or LGBT 220 or RELG 253 or SOCI 220		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 245	"Globalization's Children: The Education of the ""New"" Immigrants in the United States"	"Set against the larger backdrop of globalization and transnational migration, this course examines the educational experiences of contemporary or ""new"" im/migrants and the children of im/migrants in U.S. schools, focusing on migrants from countries in Asia and Latin America. Drawing heavily from anthropological and sociological perspectives on the schooling of ""the new second-generation,"" the course charts the changing demography of the nation-state post-1965 and explores issues of acculturation and assimilation, the tensions and contradictions of ""learning a new land,"" and the ways in which cultural and structural factors intersect with immigrant students' everyday realities to shape school performance and opportunity."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 246	Forced Migration and Education	"Explores forced migration through the lens of human rights, and specifically the right to a quality education. Students consider the field of ""education in emergencies,"" what it is and how it works, specifically examining the role of external and local actors in addressing education issues in countries or regions affected by conflict or disaster. Through a critical analysis of notions of “crisis” and “emergency”, students gain a deeper understanding of global, national, and local refugee policy and practice. Drawing on memoirs, documentaries, and primary documents, students examine the intimate nature of forced migration, countering the image of faceless masses moving within and across borders. Students investigate and assess education programs as part of a short term response to conflict and long term peacebuilding efforts."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or CORE 183C		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 303	"Decolonizing Development: Gender, Power & Education in International Development"	"Development, rather than a benign and neutral process, must be analyzed for how it traffics with power. Drawing on critical development studies, decolonial/transnational feminisms, and anthropology and sociology of education, this course seeks to examine educational development efforts from both a critical gender and policy analysis perspective and frames the question of girls’ education in an increasingly globalizing world as issues of equity, empowerment and social justice."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or WMST 202 or FSEM 145	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 308	Global Anthropologies of Education	"The study of the relationship between education and economic, social, political, and cultural developments that shape national and regional systems of schooling. In the study of comparative education, students develop an understanding of educational phenomena across national and political boundaries. Research methods, major concepts, and current trends within the multidisciplinary field of comparative education are reviewed and examined. Students have the opportunity to engage in a critical analysis of their education in relation to other systems of education, both in the United States and overseas."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 309	Philosophies of Education	"An examination of the connection between the forms and functions of education and the state which education is designed to serve. Questions are raised regarding equality of access and outcomes, the apparent tensions between equality and liberty, and equality and excellence. The course includes discussion of the ethical dimensions of education; the ways in which education is implicated in the formation of personal identity; and the responsibility of teachers in the formation of personal and social identity."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 310	Racial Captialism & Edu Policy	"Consideration of the past 40 years of American education policy with attention to the political, economic, and ideological underpinnings of debate and scholarship. More formally, students will embark on a critical examination of how neoliberal movements toward standardization and privatization have been taken up in contemporary discourse and the effects this has had on political understandings of public institutions and public good."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 310R	SRS: Research & Reflection		EDUC	1				
EDUC 314	Re-Remembering Stories of Growing Up	"Explores and analyzes the process of looking backwards to remember the experiences of ""growing up"" to better understand how young people are constructed by schools and society. By reading academic texts that analyze childhood/youth studies and theories of futurity through intersectional lenses alongside creative non-fiction writing (memoirs) about childhood, this class focuses on how social, political, and cultural constructions of ""the child"" result largely from adult's thinking about and imagining of young people's bodies and experiences."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 315	Pedagogies and Publics	"Explores how social contexts influence informal pedagogical practices that advance societal, communal, and institutional structures. Through reading texts, primary sources, and watching films students will encounter pedagogy and educative practices not only in the classroom, the school, and educational theory but also through the study of public intellectuals, popular culture, and in grassroots activism and social movements. Centering educative and pedagogical practices that advance either dominant structures or democratic reconfigurations, students explore questions about educational access and equity by examining the intersections of gender, sexuality; race and racialized-gender; class; (im)migration and labor; humanitarianism, and legalities; ableism, disability, and the body; and society. This includes discussions of the ethical dimensions of education, the ways in which education is implicated in the formation of individual and social identities, and the role of teachers in the formation of personal and social identity. Throughout the semester, students delve into analyses of education, power, and hegemony culminating in substantive student-designed critical pedagogy research papers and projects."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 317	Democracy and Education	An opportunity to engage in in-depth analysis of the interrelationship between democratic and educational theory. Prominent North American and international models of democracy and their corresponding educational theories are examined in the context of the larger project of developing a democratic theory of education. A paper requiring serious independent research is required.	EDUC	3	EDUC 101		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 318	High-Needs Schools	"An in-depth investigation and analysis of high-needs schools. Students learn about the “problems” facing such schools. The course also focuses on challenging views that are unduly pessimistic or do not fully represent the complexity of high-needs schools, communities, and their children. Students are involved in service-learning projects with high-needs schools to further their understanding. They engage in critical dialogue and evaluate the effects of educational reform and policy changes. A paper requiring serious independent research is required."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 319	"Dreams, Love, and Education Futurities"	"Centering the work/art of WoC feminist thinkers and other visionaries, this course is about dreams, love, and the implications these have for (re)imagining and enacting different kinds of knowing and being/together (education) in collective movements (and movement-building) towards other kinds of (and kinder) futures (education futurities)."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or prereq override		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 324	Black Music: U.S. Inquiry	"An analysis of U.S. intellectual geographies through Black musical traditions. This course will situate Black musical traditions as a lens to consider: socio political, spatial, economic, philosophical, transnational, gendered, and queer meanings embodied within U.S. contexts. This course is an inquiry into how intellectual tensions, manifested in Black musical practices, provide a simultaneously contrapuntal, resonant, and dissonant lens to examine alternative and marginalized meanings of Black experience within the U.S. context."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or ALST 202 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 325	Beyond Brooklyn	"Most scholarly engagements with gentrification in the United States are based in urban areas and, in New York State, this has largely meant thinking about the material and demographic shifts being witnessed in the five boroughs. While studies of urban gentrification have been invaluable for understanding the new political economy of urban America, for creating analyses that center racial- and class-based violence in conversations around “urban development,” there have been far fewer scholarly works thinking about how urban gentrification is linked to a more peripheral set of processes that are also changing the material and cultural landscapes of surrounding rural areas as well. Focusing on the Hudson Valley and the Catskill Region in New York State, this class seeks to understand the reasons why people are leaving cities for these iconic areas and, more formally, the ways new migrations of people have an effect on local economies, infrastructures, and communities. Class will meet on-campus and have required off-campus field trips as well."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 335	Studies in Sound	"Sound is narrative, and it is with this assertion that the educational meanings and possibilities sound provide will be explored. Students will attend to the broader meanings of sound within and outside of the classroom. Overall, this course will contextualize sound in interdisciplinary relationships of, though not limited to, socio political, spatial, economic, philosophical, transnational, gendered, and queer discourses in order to rethink and expand the relationship of sound to education."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or equivalent		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 339	Feminist Disability Studies	"Students learn about (dis)ability as a gendered, racialized, and classed category of difference. Students discuss how dominant cultural, scientific, and educational understandings of the body/mind construct the boundaries of normalcy and determine the material conditions of our lives. Students look at how different aspects of a person’s identity – their ability, their gender, their race, their sexuality, their class – intersect to position them as citizens or non-citizens, members or threats to the future of the family and the nation. Students are introduced to the theoretical, analytical, and methodological tools of feminist disability studies, and the emerging field of DisCrit (Disability studies and Critical Race Theory). Using these theoretical and analytic tools, students look to the ways that activists, artists, and scholars have re-imagined the disabled body/mind as a complex identity."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or WMST 202		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 440	Special Topics in Educational Studies: Black and Latinx Educational Histories	Different members of the Department of Educational Studies teach the course and the content of the course will take shape depending on the instructor. The intellectual terrain for all iterations will be interdisciplinary and use a variety of methodological and theoretical paradigms to explore new directions or trends in the field of educational studies.	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 450	Senior Seminar: Thesis	Members of the Department of Educational Studies rotate teaching this senior seminar that is designed for students who are interested in producing a traditional senior thesis. Students will design and conduct original educational studies research on a topic of their choice. Students are required to submit a formal research paper as the culminating product.	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 451	Seminar on Curriculum and Instruction in English/Social Studies	"A seminar dealing with general issues in curriculum planning and instruction with special emphasis on the relationship between curriculum goals and instructional techniques. Consideration is given to general topics: teacher effectiveness, interpersonal relations in the classroom, teacher professionalism, authority, discipline, and the influence of administrative organization on school practice. This course is required of all students enrolled in student teaching in English and social studies and all students enrolled in elementary student teaching."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 453	Seminar on Curriculum and Instruction in Science/Mathematics	A seminar dealing with general issues in curriculum planning and instruction with special emphasis on the relationship between curriculum goals and instructional techniques. Special topics include major aims and purposes of science and mathematics education and interpersonal relationships in the classroom. This course is required of all students enrolled in student teaching in science or mathematics and all students enrolled in elementary student teaching. It does not count toward major credit.	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 454	Diagnosis and Remediation of Reading Problems	"An introduction to the diagnosis and remediation of reading problems. Students study theories of reading instruction, both developmental and remedial. Explores foundations of critical literacy theory and sociolinguistics to understand language, literacy, and culture, and then examines assessment as a tool for capturing language and literacy practices. In addition to thinking critically through underlying assumptions and educational and political issues inherent in diagnosis and remediation, students focus on acquiring the skills needed for diagnosing reading weaknesses."	EDUC	3	EDUC 202		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 455	Student Teaching	"Classroom teaching in a nearby elementary or secondary school under supervision. Students planning to be certified in secondary teaching must take either EDUC 451 or EDUC 453 in addition to EDUC 455 during the fall of the senior year or in a 9th term. Students planning to be certified in elementary teaching take EDUC 451, EDUC 453, and EDUC 455 concurrently during the fall of the senior year or in a 9th term."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 456	Dignity in Schools	"Explores personal privilege and biases that contribute to an individual's identity and worldview. Includes discussions of protected peoples categories and forms of discrimination that commonly play out in P-12 schools. One focus is the examination of current school policies and state legislation such as the Dignity for All Students Act (DASA) that seeks to create positive school environments for all students. An analysis of bullying, harassment, and discrimination prevention and intervention approaches."	EDUC	1	EDUC 101		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 460	Honors Seminar	"Designed for senior majors to work with the honors seminar faculty member and a designated department faculty to plan, design, write, and present an honors thesis. The course is reserved solely for senior majors eligible for honors or high honors in Educational Studies."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
EDUC 465	Student Teaching II	"Classroom teaching in a nearby elementary or secondary school under supervision. Students planning to be certified in secondary teaching must take either EDUC 451 or EDUC 453 in addition to EDUC 455 during the fall of the senior year or in a 9th term. Students planning to be certified in elementary teaching take EDUC 451, EDUC 453, and EDUC 455 concurrently during the fall of the senior year or in a 9th term."	EDUC	3				
EDUC 501	The American School		EDUC	3				
EDUC 502	The Teaching of Reading		EDUC	3				
EDUC 504	Child/Adolescent Development		EDUC	3				
EDUC 504Z	Child/Adolescent Development		EDUC	3				
EDUC 505	"Race, White Supremacy, and Edu"		EDUC	3				
EDUC 507	Special Education		EDUC	3				
EDUC 508	Comparative Education		EDUC	3				
EDUC 510	Racial Capitalism and Educatio		EDUC	3				
EDUC 514	Theories-Teaching & Learning		EDUC	3				
EDUC 514L	TPP Observation Hours		EDUC	0				
EDUC 515	Pedagogies and Publics		EDUC	3				
EDUC 531	Inquiry Based Teaching		EDUC	3				
EDUC 531L	TPP Observation Hours		EDUC	0				
EDUC 539	Feminist Disability Studies		EDUC	3				
EDUC 540	Tps:Education in Global World		EDUC	3				
EDUC 541	Queering Education		EDUC	3				
EDUC 546	Forced Migration & Education		EDUC	3				
EDUC 551	Sem Curric & Instr in Engl/Soc		EDUC	3				
EDUC 553	Sem Curric & Instr Scien/Math		EDUC	3				
EDUC 554	Diagnos/Remediatn Reading Prob		EDUC	3				
EDUC 554Z	Diagnos/Remediatn Reading Prob		EDUC	3				
EDUC 555	Student Teaching		EDUC	3				
EDUC 556	Dignity in Schools	"Explores personal privilege and biases that contribute to an individual's identity and worldview. The course includes discussions of protected peoples categories and forms of discrimination that commonly play out in P-12 schools. One focus of the course is the examination of current school policies and state legislation such as the Dignity for All Students Act (DASA) that seeks to create positive school environments for all students. An analysis of bullying, harassment, and discrimination prevention and intervention approaches."	EDUC	1	EDUC 101			
EDUC 565	Student Teaching II	"Classroom teaching in a nearby elementary or secondary school under supervision. MAT students planning to be certified in secondary teaching must take either EDUC 551 or EDUC 553 in addition to EDUC 555. Students planning to be certified in elementary teaching take EDUC 551, EDUC 553, and EDUC 555 concurrently."	EDUC	3				
EDUC 591	Feminist Disability Studies	Graduate-level independent study projects under the supervision of staff members. Outlines of the projects must be prepared and approved in advance by the department chair.	EDUC	3				
EDUC 593	Special Project and Thesis	"Students complete a graduate-level research project (special project or a thesis) on a significant problem in education. A special project demonstrates a substantial grasp of relevant theory and methodology as it relates to a pedagogical or institutionally based set of questions. The special project can take multiple forms depending on the student intent and areas of interest. A thesis is intended to be more academically focused in reviewing relevant literature, in gathering and interpreting data or facts, or in applying principles or evidence to the analysis of a special problem. Topics for either may be centered in the student's area of specialization or in some problem of a professional nature."	EDUC	3				
ENGL 200	Major British Writers	"Works by prominent British writers, from Geoffrey Chaucer in the fourteenth century to Seamus Heaney in the twenty-first. The course emphasizes the development of reading and analytical skills. Required of all majors, normally in their first or sophomore year."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 201	American Texts and Contexts	"An introduction to American literature exploring the relations among key texts and various contexts, both critical and historical. The course engages a wide range of issues in American literary history, from the age of discovery through the colonial period and Revolution to debates over slavery and race in the decades before and after the Civil War. The diverse authors studied include Anne Bradstreet, Jonathan Edwards, Benjamin Franklin, Ouloudah Equiano, Phillis Wheatley, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Margaret Fuller, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Herman Melville, Harriet Jacobs, Frederick Douglass, Walt Whitman, Emily Dickinson, and Mark Twain. Required of all majors, normally in the first or sophomore year."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 202	Justice/Power-Postcolonial Lit	"An introduction to significant debates and texts in the field of postcolonial literatures. This course explores how the field engages with questions of race, gender, sexuality, class, caste, and migration. It considers how writers located in the global south or in the West as migrants navigate their spaces when faced with inequality and marginalization. The course examines both the legacies that empires have left and the nature of new empires that are being constructed."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 203	Arthurian Tradition	"An introduction to literary study focusing on the nature of literary tradition and its relationship to cultural and historical contexts. The rich, varied, and enduring tradition connected with the figure of King Arthur is explored through a consideration of English, French, and Welsh texts written between the early Middle Ages and the 15th century, although some more modern works may also be considered. The course is concerned with (among other topics) how different cultures, historical epochs, and individual authors have adapted Arthurian tradition to meet their own needs and concerns and with what has made Arthurian tradition a compelling source of material for so many different interests right up to the present."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 204	Native American Writers	"An introduction to literary study focusing on the question of what it means to identify a national tradition of literature. This course examines Native American authors of the late 20th century in relation to the works of some of their contemporaries, including works by Linda Hogan, Louise Erdrich, N. Scott Mo-maday, Leslie Marmon Silko, and Simon Ortiz."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 207	New Immigrant Voices	"An introduction to literary study focusing on narratives of 20th-century American immigration. What does it mean to say ""America is a nation of immigrants""? As a literary form, the American immigrant narrative describes the process of migration, Americanization, and (un)settlement. In this course, students pay particular attention to how race, gender, class, and sexuality, as well as the changing character of American cities, shape the immigrant experience. Is ethnicity in opposition to Americanness? How is identity transformed by migration? How and why is home remembered? How is coming of age paralleled with migration? What narrative strategies are deployed? Finally, what are the constitutive tropes of American immigrant fiction? Counts toward the postcolonial literature requirement for English majors."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 208	Sex and the Global City	"An introduction to literary study using the relationship between sexuality, literature and the history of global cities as a jumping off point for considering the problems, practices, and possibilities of literary study. The course undertakes close reading of modern texts to discover how urban settings influence our understandings of racial and ethnic identity, gender roles, and multiple forms of sexual relationships. It also addresses the ways that the cosmopolitan city provides new forms and content for both modern identities and post-modern narratives. Works of literature are contextualized by a variety of critical and historical works from the modernist and post-modernist periods."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 217	Introductory Workshop in Creative Writing: Poetry	"An introduction to the reading and writing of fiction, non-fiction, or poetry. In a given term, the emphasis is determined by the instructor."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 219	American Literature and the Environment	"An introduction to literary study that focuses on human responses to their environments and ecologies. This course explores representations of relationships between people, places, and animals in American fiction, poetry, and non-fiction from the early American Renaissance to the postmodern period. Questions of how environments are inflected by gender and racial positions, as well as literature’s insights into issues of environmental justice and sustainability, are addressed through works by writers such as Wendell Berry, Charles Chesnutt, Annie Dillard, William Faulkner, bell hooks, Aldo Leopold, Marilynne Robinson, Wallace Stevens, and Jean Toomer."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 220	"The Booker Prize: Examining a Prize, Examining an Empire"	"The Booker Prize is awarded annually to a new novel published in the UK by an author from the UK or a former territory of the British Empire. Recently the prize has also been opened to American authors, a source of great controversy. Students follow the year's Booker Prize proceedings, and the class schedule will be built live alongside developments in the prize season over the course of the fall semester. In addition to analyzing these texts as works of literature, students will dissect the evolving aesthetics and politics of the prize. Why is the Booker a cultural phenomenon in England and what does it mean to consider the former ""Empire"" through these texts? What roles do the judges, the sponsors, and the British and international reading public have? Students read one novel from the Booker longlist, all six novels on the shortlist, as well as supplementary critical essays relevant to the texts at hand."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 240	Latinx Literature	"Latina/os have been present in the United States ever since the country's founding, and beyond. Yet, their contributions to the culture and literary life of the country have only been recognized all too recently. Moreover, despite being one of the fastest growing minority groups in the U.S., Latina/ os have often been sidelined by discrimination and xenophobia. Students considers these issues, and the vibrant and diverse role Latina/as have played in U.S. literature and culture. Taking a broadly historical approach, and paying particularly close attention to contemporary Latinx fiction, memoir, and poetry, it considers questions relating to place, politics, race, history, and gender. Major figures to be considered include Jose Marti, William Carlos Williams, Gloria Andalzua, Natalie Diaz, and Justin Torres."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 266	Introduction to Drama	A survey of theater history and dramatic literature from ancient Athens through the early 19th century. Plays include not only classics of Western drama but also exemplary theater texts from around the world.	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	Students intending to major/minor in theater usually take either THEA 266 or THEA 267 by the end of sophomore year.
ENGL 267	Modern Drama	"A survey of the new theatrical styles to emerge around the world in the 19th and 20th centuries. Course readings closely consider the relationship between a play’s literary form and its realization in performance, as well as theater’s response to the emergence of film, television, and new media."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	Students intending to major/minor in theater usually take either THEA 266 or THEA 267 by the end of sophomore year.
ENGL 290	London English Study Group Preparation	Required of and limited to participants in the London English Study Group and is taken the term before the group's departure.	ENGL	1				
ENGL 301	History of English Language	"A study of the historical development of the English language from the first written records of the Anglo-Saxon period to the present day. The course is concerned both with the linguistic ""laws"" governing the development of English and with the political, economic, and cultural factors that have helped to determine the character of the language spoken today. Students engage in some close study of earlier forms of English. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 302	The Literature of the Early Middle Ages	"A study of early medieval literature, focusing mainly on the great tales and poems of the Germanic and Celtic traditions. Readings include such representative major works as Beowulf, the Irish epic Táin Bó Cúailnge, the Welsh Mabinogi, and selected Icelandic sagas. By approaching these texts both as literary works and as characteristic expressions of their respective cultures, the course works toward situating Old English literature in a broader European context. Texts are in translation, with some exposure to original languages for interested students. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 303	"Medieval Merchants, Knights, and Pilgrims"	"A study of engagements with the world in medieval English accounts of history, adventure, travel, and pilgrimage, suggesting the sense of challenge, opportunity, and threat that the world beyond Britain’s watery borders seemed to offer. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 304	Introduction to Early Medieval Languages of Britain and Ireland	"An introduction to the languages, literatures, and history of the early medieval cultures of Britain and Ireland. Depending on the semester, the course may concentrate on Old English, Old Irish, or Middle Welsh. The heart of the course is an intensive study of the chosen language, combining thorough and systematic instruction in the basic elements of the language with translation of selected readings from texts by early medieval authors. The course examines the cultural and historical backgrounds of early medieval literature; students work on developing the philological expertise to be able to address such topics as the heroic ethos, the impact of Christianity on the pagan peoples of western Europe, and the roles of women in early medieval society. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 305	The Female Protagonist	"A study of women's roles in British and American fiction in the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 307	The American Novel	A study of representative works by 19th- and 20th-century American novelists.	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 309	Fiction	A study of narrative fiction. Students should consult the department and registration material to learn what specific topic will be considered during a given term.	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 310	African American Humor	"A study of public and private African American humor as entertainment and survival, as well as a vivid expression of the black experience in America. The course traces African American humor from its African roots, through slavery, minstrelsy or blackface entertainment, vaudeville, early silent movies, and radio, on to television and today's more explicit expressions in concerts, comedy clubs, and motion pictures."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 312	"Race, Place, & US South/SRS"	"A study of literature of the U.S. South with attention to texts ranging from the colonial period to the contemporary moment. By assessing ""southern literature"" as a category with a particular history, students approach texts that issue from a region at a crossroads of circum-­Atlantic commerce and culture, oppression and hope. Students explore texts in a variety of media and theorize them from a range of perspectives. Major figures include Frances Harper, Kate Chopin, Zora Neale Hurston, William Faulkner, Flannery O'Connor, Yusef Komunyakaa, and Jesmyn Ward."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 312R	SRS: Research & Reflection		ENGL	1				
ENGL 313	Restoration and 18th-Century Literature and Culture	"Works of John Dryden, John Milton, Mary Astell, Daniel Defoe, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, Jonathan Swift, and Alexander Pope analyzed in light of their political, religious, and literary background. Figures from the cultural context of the period - Wren, Handel, Hogarth - are also studied. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 314	Foundations of African American Literature	"A study of African American writing from the 18th and 19th centuries. Drawing on the history of slavery and its immediate aftermath, students examine how African Americans negotiated the promises and the limitations of freedom, gendered experiences of slavery, debates around Reconstruction, political representation, and discourses of revolution and abolition. Students will discuss topics including religion, labor, sentimental novels and historical romances, and the slave narrative. Students will also consider how writings by these authors circulated in the United States and abroad. Authors may include the following: Jupiter Hammon, Phillis Wheatley, David Walker, Harriet Jacobs, Solomon Northrup, Frederick Douglass, Maria Stewart, William Wells Brown, Anna Julia Cooper, and Charles Chesnutt, among others."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 315	The Romantic Poets & Essayists	"An intensive introduction to the momentous literary historical period (from the late 18th Century through the early 19th Century) identified retrospectively as Romanticism. The course considers how Romantic poets and essayists employ the literary medium to figure, participate in, process, and/or respond to intertwined developments in history, aesthetics, philosophy, and literature itself. Readings include works by Edmund Burke, Lord Byron, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Thomas De Quincey, William Hazlitt, John Keats, Charles Lamb, William Wordsworth, the Shelleys, Charlotte Smith, and more."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 316	Banned Books	"A study of books banned in the United States and/or elsewhere in the world. This course will examine the controversies that have surrounded these works and consider why historical and sociopolitical episodes led to acts of censorship. The course will interrogate arguments for and against free speech. What is intellectual freedom? How and why have various pressure groups protested? Should there be limits on a citizen’s freedom to read and/or publish work that does not accord with the religious or political beliefs of another person or interest group? Students will engage complex works of literature that have been called obscene, irreligious, racist, sexually explicit, and/or graphically violent. Writers to be studied may include Richard Wright, Vladimir Nabokov, Toni Morrison, Ken Kesey, Alison Bechdel, and Sherman Alexie."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 321	Shakespeare	"A study of selected Shakespeare plays examined through modern and historical, social and political, theoretical and performance perspectives. Students can count both 321 and 322 for credit toward the concentration, although only one can be counted for pre-1800 credit. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 322	Shakespeare	"Selected comedies, tragedies, and histories of Shakespeare, considered from a variety of critical, theatrical, historical, and textual perspectives, depending on the individual instructor's interests. Students may take both 321 and 322, although only one of these courses may be counted toward the pre-1800 requirement for the English major. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 325	Milton	A study of the works of Milton with emphasis on the early poems and the epic Paradise Lost. The course includes close reading of the texts and an examination of their relationship to the art and ideas of the period. (Pre-1800 course.)	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 326	Shakespeare's Contemporaries	"An examination of the vibrant London theatre scene, from the 1580s through the forced closure of the playhouses in 1649, including the work of Marlowe, Jonson, Kyd, Middleton, and Tourneur. Aspects of the historical, cultural, and material framework of the playhouses are also taken into consideration. Among other topics for examination are the discoveries of modern playhouse archaeology, the private lives of actors and theatre owners, the formation of theatre companies and their travel routes (both in and out of England), the commercial workings of theatres as businesses, playhouses as movable construction, the theatres as part of a much larger entertainment network, and, finally, the changing political position of the theatres that led ultimately to their demise."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 329	Inventing Ireland	"An introduction to the field of Irish Studies. Begins by considering a few influential works of earlier Irish literature and then moves on to pay close attention to the Irish Revolution and the “Easter Rebellion,” particularly the explosion of creativity in the literary and dramatic arts during the Irish Literary Revival, with a special focus on the poetic work of its leader, the towering figure of W.B. Yeats, and the wide shadow his influence would cast over the work of later poets, like Nuala Ní Dhomhnail, Seamus Heaney and Paul Muldoon. Students are grounded in the history of Ireland, its conflicted colonial relationship with Britain, and the outsized influence of this small island on global and postcolonial literatures. May be offered as an extended study. Counts toward the postcolonial literature requirement for English majors."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 333	African/Diaspora Women's Narrative	"Narratives by African, African American, and African Caribbean women writers. The focus of this course is the concept of the African diaspora with its broad cultural, social, political, and economic implications. Students explore how these texts represent women's experience cross-culturally. How does the condition of each nation-state, with its attendant hierarchy of race, ethnicity, class, and gender, shape the (dis)continuities in these texts? Ultimately, they question whether these narratives can cohere under the rubric of African/diaspora women's literature."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 334	African American Literature	"A study of works by and about black Americans. Short fiction, the novel, drama, poetry, and the essay are examined with an eye for determining the nature of the black American's role, as writer and as subject, in the context of American literature as a whole."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 335	Searching for Home in S Asia	"An exploration of what South Asia is and how it has been described/defined using key literary texts and theoretical arguments from writers who both reside inside and outside the region. Students critically examine the different representations of South Asia from the colonial period to the present moment. The course begins by examining classical texts that were revived during British colonialism, moves to exploring colonial representations of countries in the region, and concludes by discussing contemporary postcolonial texts. The gendered nature of colonial, postcolonial, and global processes is an important part of this course."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 336	Native American Literature	"A study of literature by First Nations peoples. Works of fiction, nonfiction, drama, and poetry are studied with emphasis on the combination of, and oftentimes conflict between, different expressive traditions. Can an oral tradition become part of a written literature? What is the function of ""story"" within different cultural traditions? Writers include N. Scott Momaday, Leslie Marmon Silko, Simon Ortiz, Louise Erdrich, Linda Hogan, Luci Tapahonso, Irvin Morris, Esther Belin, and Craig Womack."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 337	African Literature	"A survey of African literature written in English in the decolonizing, post-colonial, and neo-colonial eras. This course examines a number of outstanding novels and critical writing by African writers, with a particular focus on the ways literary aesthetics change to reflect dynamic national, cultural, and subjective identities."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 339	Modernist Poetry	"A study of selected British and American poets active between 1900 and 1950. Amidst all the discourse about the ""postmodern,"" it becomes increasingly clear that there is no consensus on what it is ""post."" More recent versions of the ""postmodern"" argue that it is not a period but a mode - one coeval with Modernism itself. Modernity and postmodernity can thus be understood only in relation to one another. This course pursues that relation by focusing on poets like W.H. Auden, Sterling Brown, T.S. Eliot, Robert Frost, Langston Hughes, Mina Loy, Marianne Moore, Ezra Pound, Muriel Rukeyser, Wallace Stevens, Melvin Tolson, or William Carlos Williams."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 340	"Critical Theory: Language, Semiotics, and Form"	"A survey of important developments in the formation of literary criticism as a modern discipline. Topics may include Freudian, feminist, deconstructive, Marxist, semiotic, and historical approaches."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 344	African American Literature II	"A survey of African American literature after 1900. Reading across time, space, and genre, students examine how African American writers have developed traditions of protest and political dissent, navigated the evolution of racial discourse after Reconstruction, and explored the terms of freedom, citizenship and belonging in the United States. Students also engage African American literary production across a variety of forms to consider how African American writers respond to social and cultural movements of the 20th and 21st centuries. Topics include the artistic renaissance in Harlem and Chicago, the Civil Rights movement, the Black Arts movement, the emergence of the New Black Aesthetic, and Black writing in the age of Black Lives Matter. Authors may include the following: Nella Larsen, Langston Hughes, Zora Neale Hurston, Richard Wright, Lorraine Hansberry, Amiri Baraka, Sonia Sanchez, August Wilson, Toni Morrison, and Percival Everett, among others."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 345	Victorian Fiction	"An examination of the forms that British fiction took during the era commonly known as the Victorian age (roughly 1837-1901). Texts include works by such writers as Charles Dickens, William Thackeray, Charlotte Brontë, Wilkie Collins, Anthony Trollope, Elizabeth Gaskell, George Eliot, Thomas Hardy, Rudyard Kipling, Robert Louis Stevenson, George Egerton, and George Gissing. Attention is paid to the many forms that Victorian fiction took, and to the variety of topics that it addressed. There are opportunities to consider such subjects as Victorian publishing practices, fiction as a vehicle for social criticism, the relationship of fiction to other cultural forms, and the growing frankness of mainstream fiction."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 347	Research Sem in Dramatic Wrtg	"A seminar on research for creative writers, designed to open bold paths toward thinking about, understanding, discussing, and using research to enrich the meaning, complexity, relevance, and theatricality of creative dramatic writing. Theatre staff from the areas of writing, directing, and design, and other guest presenters will engage students in discussion, readings, and viewings."	ENGL	3	THEA 356 or THEA 358 or ENGL 217 or ENGL 374 or ENGL 377 or ENGL 378 or ENGL 379 or ENGL 477		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 349	Global Theater	"An exploration of Asian, African, intercultural, and postcolonial performance traditions, spanning theater, dance, ritual, and everyday life. Course materials include both classic and contemporary play texts along with selected readings in history, anthropology, and performance studies."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 356	Playwriting	"General principles of playwriting. The goal of the course is the creation of a finished work: a one-act play, one act of a longer play, or a complete play. Writing for the theater represents emotional and artistic commitment and intellectual pursuit. As part of the learning process, students tackle the artistic and pragmatic challenges of building methodically from the seeds of inspiration to the crafting of the well-written play. Text analysis investigates classic and modern plays. The class is a first-hand initiation into the vocabulary and technique of collaboration for the development of original material."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 360	Living Writers	"An examination of how serious writing is achieved. The focus of Living Writers is on contemporary fiction writers, who will be present in this class at Hudson each fall. The course is taught by one or more faculty with guest lecturers from across the university. Students read stories and novels by each writer on the syllabus. Each week the writer whose work has been under discussion visits the class. The presentation is followed by a public reading."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 361	Chaucer's Canterbury Tales	"The social, political, and cultural background to Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 363	Ctmp Fic:Women Writing Family	"Spring 2018: Contemporary Fiction: Women Writing the ""Dysfunctional"" Family An investigation of diversely American novels and story collections written by women which feature ensemble cast “dysfunctional” families. Students will explore how the ""dysfunctional” family novel can serve as a cultural critique, often using its fictional families as microcosms of contemporary American culture, and so tackling issues of generational power dynamics, gender, race, class, and sexual identity. The class will also consider the way the women who have written these texts are perhaps reclaiming and politicizing writing about the domestic sphere, a tradition with a long and complicated history."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 365	Fugitive Mobilities:Migrtn/Env	"A study of American literature in the 20th century with a focus on the aesthetic, environmental, and cultural meanings of mobility, particularly as practiced by figures that move - or refuse to move - in defiance of the dominant culture: vagabonds, migrant laborers, fugitives. To uncover the racial and political meanings of twentieth-century mobilities in the Americas, we will explore texts in a variety of media - narrative fiction, poetry, literary nonfiction, photography, sound recordings, and film - and theorize these mediums from a range of perspectives. Major figures include John Dos Passos, Dorothea Lange, William Faulkner, Zora Neale Hurston, Susan Sontag, Toni Morrison, Cormac McCarthy, Ida B. Wells, Sherman Alexie, and Richard Wright."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 368	After Genocide:Memory/Repres	"An investigation of the impact of genocide on the self and the imagination's representations in literature, film, and art. Primary texts include poetry, memoir, video testimony, film, and visual art. Scholarly methodology involves readings of literary criticism and theoretical work in the study of trauma, literary theory, and testimony. Among the questions the course asks are: How does trauma shape imagination and open up access to the site of disaster that is now carried in fragments which inform memory? How do representations of violence shape and inflect aesthetic orientations and literary and artistic forms? The course concerns itself with the aftermath of two 20th-century genocides--that of the Armenians in Turkey during World War I and of the Jews in Europe during World War II--both seminal events of the 20th century that, in various ways, became models for ensuing genocides."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 370	Prophecy and Doubt: Romantic and Victorian British Poetry	"Deeply troubled by accelerating change and alarming social upheaval, 19th century British poetry veers between prophecy and doubt, neither entirely sure of its vision nor willing to surrender hope. Perhaps even more than ourselves, the poets of this era felt keenly the forces of social fragmentation and the constriction of the human spirit by machinery and technology. Students start with fiery seers like William Blake or Percy Shelly, observe poets like Tennyson, Barrett-Browning, Arnold or the Rossettis wrestling with the role of the poet in modern society, and follow the self-described “last of the Romantics,” the Irish poet William Butler Yeats, as he prepares the way for modernism precisely by digging deeper yet into tradition."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 371	South Asian Diasporas	"An introduction to literatures, films, and critical theory from the South Asian diasporas in North America, England, and South Africa. Student understandings of the fields of Ethnic and Diaspora Studies are enhanced. Focused on participants in the diasporas, emphasizing their different histories of arrival, their place as hyphenated identities, and their shared struggles with other oppressed groups within a framework of segregation at home and empire abroad. Readings focus on texts from the early colonial periods, Jim Crow/apartheid, the Post-WWII reconstruction of England, and the War on Terror. Authors/film-makers may include, Sam Selvon, Mira Nair, Rayda Jacobs, Imraan Coorvadia, Salman Rushdie, Achmat Dangor, Hanif Kureishi, Leah Lakshmi Piepzna-Samarasinha, Amitav Ghosh, Jumpa Lahiri, and H.M. Naqvi."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 374	Creative Nonfiction Workshop	"A workshop in the reading and writing of creative nonfiction, especially the memoir and the personal essay. Instructor permission required on the basis of writing sample."	ENGL	3	Instructor approval on the basis of writing samples		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 376	Playwriting II	"Building on playwriting skills and techniques introduced and practiced in THEA 276: Playwriting, students will study and practice the art and craft of writing and revising the one-act play (45-60 minutes in length). The course will be run as a workshop and is intended for students with playwriting experience."	ENGL	3	THEA 356 or ENGL 356 or THEA 276		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 377	Fiction Writing Workshop	"This is a workshop, which includes group analysis and criticism, as well as other assignments. Instructor permission is required to enroll in this class, and selections will be made on the basis of writing sample. Please submit a 10 page creative writing sample, fiction preferred, but not mandatory."	ENGL	3	Instructor approval on the basis of writing samples		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 378	Poetry Writing Workshop	A writing workshop is a unique class. Students write a poem each week and critique each other’s work. Students read poems by established poets and also great essays by poets about poetry and the creative process. Students find a community of writers around the workshop table. Instructor permission required on the basis of writing sample.	ENGL	3	Instructor approval on the basis of writing samples		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 379	Literary Journalism	"A course in canonical and cutting-edge works from the 1930s to the present. When journalists borrow the tools of fiction writers to craft compelling true stories, we call them literary. Students read and analyze texts by such writers as Joseph Mitchell, Calvin Trillin, John Hershey, Truman Capote, Norman Mailer, Hunter S. Thompson, Tom Wolfe, Joan Didion, Michael Herr, Tracy Kidder, Jane Kramer, Susan Orlean, and Alex Wilkinson."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 381E	High-Altitude Writing	"A 3-week extended study from Kathmandu, Nepal, to Mt. Everest base camp. Students study the art and craft of writing about far-flung places, as well as recent news stories about Mt. Everest. Texts also include such classics as The Snow Leopard by Peter Matthiessen and Into Thin Air by Jon Krakauer. In conversation with the professor, each student composes a work of creative nonfiction that might consider, among other possibilities, what constitutes the 21st century sublime: What, if anything, does it mean to stand near the top of the Earth?"	ENGL	2	ENGL 374 or ENGL 379		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 385	"Drama, Fiction, and Poetry of Tudor England"	"Courtly and popular writing in England, 1485-1603. Writers studied include the canonized greats (Sidney, Spenser, Marlowe, and Shakespeare) and their equally flamboyant contemporaries. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 386	"Poetry, Prose, and Drama in the Century of the English Revolutions, 1600-1700"	"A study of the impact of Renaissance science and political and economic turmoil on English literature through the revolution of mid-century. The course includes works in prose, poetry, and drama of the ""metaphysical"" and ""cavalier"" schools: Donne, Jonson, Webster, Herbert, Herrick, Browne, Marvell, and their contemporaries. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 402	Medieval Celtic Literature	"A study of selected texts from the medieval Welsh and Irish literary traditions. Readings span the period from the 7th to the 15th centuries and include such works as the Irish epic Tain Bo Cuailnge (""The Cattle Raid of Cooley""), the Welshmythological stories of The Mabinogi, and the love and nature poetry of Dafydd ap Gwilym. The course considers these works as cultural and historical artifacts, and also explores their accessibility to more modern critical and theoretical approaches. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 403	Race before Race: the Literature of the Early Modern Transatlantic	"Race is a fiction, but its effects in the world are real. Students study the literary sources of racial typologies and race-based subordination in the early modem world. In works by white and Black authors, ranging from William Shakespeare's Othello (1603) to Aphra Behn's Oroonoko (1689) to Olaudah Equiano's Interesting Narrative (1789), students read narratives of colonial encounter, accounts of slave trafficking and the experience of bondage, philosophical discussions of human variety, and many other works that present less familiar practices of race-making and racial self-understanding. Students learn the early modem literary history of race-making so that they are better equipped to think critically about how race is made to matter in our time."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 405	The Brontës	"A consideration of the major works of the Brontës: Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre and Villette, Emily Brontë's Wuthering Heights, and Anne Brontë's Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall. This seminar also examines Brontë biography, taking Elizabeth Gaskell's The Life of Charlotte Brontë as its point of departure. Students gain an understanding of the Brontës' literary and social contexts; they also gain an appreciation of the powerful myth that has grown up around these three sisters."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 408	Literature of Medieval Women	"A study of key medieval texts from the 12th to the 15th centuries in which the authors attempt to articulate individual identity in relation to the medieval social codes and expectations that shaped their experience. Students consider such issues as love, gender, religious vocation, and court and town life. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 412	Jane Austen & Woman Novelist	"A reconsideration of the history of the novel in the 18th century, using contemporary critical approaches to early women novelists. Jane Austen has held an unchallenged place in a great tradition of 19th-century authors, but has only recently been read in the context of her female predecessors. Reading Maria Edgeworth, Fanny Burney, and Charlotte Lennox gives students a new way to read Austen; reading among the many current critical theories about women as producers and consumers of fiction in the 18th century helps raise more general questions about the literary canon and how it has been formed. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 418	Studies in American Literature: Hemingway & Fitzgerald	"An advanced seminar in a topic - author, genre, or theme - in American literature."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 420	Emerson and Thoreau	"A study of the two major figures of American transcendentalism in their social, political, and religious context. The course focuses on the major writings of Emerson and Thoreau, with some attention to related works by their contemporaries."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 422	Confession and Rebellion: American Literature in the 1950s	"An investigation of the innovative forces of post-World War II American literature. The course will review the tumultuous decade of the 1950s during which time the United States was catapulted into a Cold War with the Soviet Union and a congruent episode of anticommunist hysteria known as McCarthyism. This initiated the new nuclear age created with the dropping of the bomb on Hiroshima. It was also a decade defined by the struggle with Jim Crow racism and the emergence of a new Civil Rights movement, the birth of the second wave of feminism, and the emergence of a rich range of cultural criticism focused on issues including the social construction of the American family, corporate and suburban conformism, sexual repression, and the destructive capacities of the new military industrial complex. Out of this charged political and cultural situation, writers created some of the most innovative literary works in modern American history."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 431	"Ethnographic Fictions: Travel Writing, Bearing Witness, and Human Rights"	"Helps students navigate fiction's complex relationship with representation and reality. Scans a broad spectrum of texts, beginning with 18th- and 19th-century European novels, and continue onto contemporary writings from the postcolonial world. Students discuss the complex ways in which fiction documents the social world, produces historical archives, bears witness to trauma and violence, and memorializes loss, but also rejects and/or makes readers critically aware of realism's positivist impulses. Also guides students in reading theoretical texts on the topic. Possible authors include Daniel Defoe, Rudyard Kipling, Leonard Woolf, Bertolt Brecht, Chinua Achebe, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Michael Ondaatje, and David Henry Hwang."	ENGL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 433	Caribbean Literature	"A study of the literature and culture of the Caribbean through prose and poetry written in English. Topics vary from term to term. They include routes and roots, Caribbean women writers, and Caribbean identities."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 441	James Joyce	"A study of several of the author's major works, including Ulysses."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	"Prior course work in Shakespeare, 19th- or 20th-century narrative recommended."
ENGL 444	Modern Wisdom Literature	"Developing from the ""wisdom literatures"" of both Greco-Roman and Hebrew tradition, the modern aphorism is characterized by its brief and often pointed expression of an observation or precept. It differs from, say, maxims, proverbs, or apothegms in that it turns on paradox and antithesis; it differs from earlier forms in the ways it undermines rather than supports certainty. Students explore the relations of literary form to convictions about the nature and limits of human knowledge, habits of reading, and its uses in life. Students follow the transformation of the aphorism both as form and as impulse as it is reinvented in the Modern period-chiefly following the example of Friedrich Nietzsche-and explores its character as a lyrical corrective to overly definitive and linear ways of organizing and writing about experience."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 445	Life-Writing: The Renaissance	"How do we tell stories about people? What historical and cultural elements shape our narratives about them? What materials do we have with which to build these portraits? This course is an exploration of biography, as non-fiction narrative, practiced both by modern writers and Renaissance writers. The subjects, ranging across a variety of countries, include a statesmen and an impersonator, an alchemist and a painter, a noblewoman and an executioner. Materials include original letters, diaries, autobiographies, travel journals, and legal records. (Pre-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 460	Mythology of Northern Europe	"Explore the mythology of the Germanic and Celtic worlds. The focus will be mainly on literature from medieval Ireland, Wales, and Scandinavia, but students will also consider the evidence of archaeology and of Greek and Roman writers, who had a lot to say about their neighbors to the north and west. Students will develop a familiarity with some of the most important scholarly approaches to understanding and interpreting myth; and consider the afterlife of Germanic and Celtic mythology in modern literature, film, politics, and religious practice."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 461	Studies in the Renaissance	"Studies in the Renaissance: Shakespeare Before and After. Selected plays of Shakespeare, read against the backdrop of the earlier work Shakespeare adapted and in connection with early and more recent adaptations others made of his plays. A pre-1800 course."	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 471	Major American Novelists: Toni Morrison	"An intensive study of the works of one or two writers, as announced. (Post-1800 course.)"	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 472	Faulkner	A study of the major novels and selected short stories of William Faulkner.	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 477	Advanced Workshop	"An advanced workshop in the writing of fiction, nonfiction, and poetry; includes study of literary texts, group analysis and one-on-one conferences. Instructor permission required on the basis of writing sample.Submit 10 double-spaced pages of nonfiction or fiction, or 5 pages of poetry (clearly mark your name and class year on each page & the genre of your submission, and list creative writing courses previously completed)."	ENGL	3	Instructor approval on the basis of writing samples		Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 489	Preparation for Honors in English Literature	"This seminar, taken in the senior year, is required of all English majors pursuing a scholarly honors project. The course has a twofold purpose. First, on a theoretical level, it problematizes familiar attitudes about and approaches to literary texts and contexts, while introducing students to the methodologies of twenty-first-century scholarship. Second, it inaugurates honors research, requiring the completion of essential preliminary tasks for the thesis that will be written in the spring."	ENGL	1				
ENGL 490	Special Studies for Honors	Writing the honors essay. This course must be taken in addition to the nine courses required for the major in English literature and the eleven courses required for the major in English with an emphasis in creative writing.	ENGL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENGL 591	Major British Writers		ENGL	3				
ENGL 592	Searching for Home in S Asia		ENGL	3				
ENGL 593	Major British Writers		ENGL	3				
ENGL 594	Literary Journalism		ENGL	3				
ENGL 595	Lit of Early Middle Ages		ENGL	3				
ENGL 596	History of English Language		ENGL	3				
ENGL 597	"Crit Theory: Lang, Semiotics"		ENGL	3				
ENGL 598	Macadamised Roads: H. Rider Haggard's and William Morris's Nordic Fantasies		ENGL	4				
ENST 202	Environmental Ethics	"An introduction to the field of environmental ethics. Several key figures and philosophies in the environmental movement are studied and critically analyzed, with a particular emphasis on ethical reasoning and its influences on environmental policies and practices. Topics to be discussed include animal rights and the ethical treatment of animals, intrinsic and instrumental evaluations of the natural world and its inhabitants, the value(s) of species and ecosystems, the nature and extent of our obligations to address climate change, as well as central questions of consumption and population ethics in the context of sustainability."	ENST	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENST 219	American Literature and the Environment	"An introduction to literary study that focuses on human responses to their environments and ecologies. This course explores representations of relationships between people, places, and animals in American fiction, poetry, and non-fiction from the early American Renaissance to the postmodern period. Questions of how environments are inflected by gender and racial positions, as well as literature’s insights into issues of environmental justice and sustainability, are addressed through works by writers such as Wendell Berry, Charles Chesnutt, Annie Dillard, William Faulkner, bell hooks, Aldo Leopold, Marilynne Robinson, Wallace Stevens, and Jean Toomer."	ENST	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ENST 232	Environmental Justice	"In the wake of the environmental movement and the civil rights movement rose a crosscurrent of issues combining problems of social justice and environmental issues. During the past four decades, this crosscurrent has swelled to produce a new social movement: the environmental justice movement. This course explores the terms and ideas of environmental justice by addressing the key issues of environmental racism, distributive justice, procedural justice, and justice as recognition, and the ways in which these concepts explain environmental inequality. It embraces the deep interrogation of the historical context of environmental problems and the ways in which systems of oppression contribute to environmental issues. These issues are introduced and discussed mainly in the context of the U.S. environmental justice movement, with some international context highlighted periodically."	ENST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ENST 233	Global Environmental Health Issues	"Environmental health is a field of interdisciplinary study that integrates human society and behavior with ecological processes to understand environmental dimensions of human health. This course focuses on knowledge generated in the natural and social sciences that concerns human-environmental interactions and its implications for human health risk. It introduces students to the conceptual and empirical underpinnings of the direct and indirect relationships between environment and health, approaches to measuring these relationships, and the ways in which health policies, programs, and clinical practices have been organized to reduce risk at various geographic scales: locally, nationally, and internationally. Regional implications of global climate and other global processes provide an important context for the course. This course also explicitly demonstrates the importance of an interdisciplinary approach to investigating questions in global environmental health and the complexity of environmental analysis."	ENST	2				
ENST 234	Global Environmental Health	"Environmental health is a field of interdisciplinary study that integrates human society and behavior with ecological processes to understand environmental dimensions of human health. Students focus on not only knowledge generated in the natural and social sciences that concerns human-environmental interactions and its implications for human health risk, but also includes an extensive case study on various emergent issues in public health. ?Case Studies in Global Environmental Health Issues? introduces students to the conceptual and empirical underpinning of the direct and indirect relationships between environment and health, approaches to measuring these relationships, and the ways in which health policies, programs and clinical practices have been organized to reduce risk at various geographic scales: locally, nationally and internationally. Students have an opportunity to complete an extensive research project on issues of environmental health during the second half of the semester."	ENST	3				
ENST 234R	SRS: Research & Prep		ENST	1				
ENST 240	Sustainability: Science and Analysis	"Using scientific evidence and tools, this course presents sustainability issues and solutions through environmental science and engineering perspectives. Students will learn about the theories and evidence behind major environmental phenomena, and students will use scientifically-grounded arguments to think critically about complex environmental challenges and possible sustainable solutions. Topics to be discussed include dependency on fossil fuels, the stress of population growth and consumption on the environment, and recycling. Students will also have the opportunity to conduct several hands-on experiments and to analyze data using statistics."	ENST	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
ENST 241	Sustainabilit & Climate Action	"Explores the initiatives, programs and policies being implemented at the local and regional government level to promote sustainability and address climate change. Students will investigate diverse policy pathways from national and local case studies. Whenever possible, students work in groups with community partners, including those in the upstate New York region, to solve complex challenges facing local governments and organizations trying to enact meaningful climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies, and sustainability-related policy. These projects will be informed by different theoretical orientations to sustainability, allowing students to gain practical experience in civic engagement and policy making."	ENST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ENST 250	Environmental Policy Analysis	"Explores the theories and methods of policy analysis as applied to U.S. environmental policymaking. Policy analysis is an applied social science that draws on diverse methods to generate information designed to be used in political settings and inform policy decisions. Students explore specific environmental issues such as pollution regulation, wildlife and ecosystem management, and climate/energy issues. Students learn, among other skills, to: define problems using data to describe environmental change, construct policy alternatives using various analytical techniques, define evaluative criteria, assess the alternatives, and draw conclusions."	ENST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ENST 313	Env Prob & Env Actvsm in China	"Explores China's complex environmental issues, their historical roots, and social implications. It also examines the rise of environmental social activism in China. The course will utilize pedagogical methods from InterGroup Dialogues (IGD) to provide students with the intellectual tools to analyze issues of power, privilege, and identity and by extension, their own position in the world in relation to these environmental issues. This course is linked to an extended study to China. Students will travel to the People's Republic of China, where they will examine sites of environmental problems, but also meet activists and see their work in progress. The trip will also bring to the forefront some of the issues of power, privilege, and race issues that were discussed in the course."	ENST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ENST 313E	Env Activism/China Extended St	"This extended study is linked to the on-campus course ENST 313. Students will travel to the People's Republic of China, where they will examine sites of environmental problems, but also meet activists and see their work in progress. The trip will also bring to the forefront some of the issues of power, privilege, and race issues that were discussed in the course."	ENST	2				
ENST 313L	Env Prob & Actvsm in China Lab	"Examines the rise of environmental social activism in China; the historical, political, cultural, and economic roots of China's current environmental problems, including deforestation, air pollution, water pollution, and species loss. Students learn theories of environmental justice and explore the rise of environmental activism in the PRC. The course will utilize pedagogical methods from InterGroup Dialogue (IGD) to provide students with the intellectual tools to analyze issues of power, privilege, and identity and by extension, their own position in the world in relation to these environmental issues."	ENST	1				
ENST 319	Food	"Food is fundamental — it sustains us and is essential for our survival — but food is more than just what we eat. Food is also a commodity with complex global markets and ecological impacts; it is highly regulated through our political processes and institutions; and it forms a key part of our culture and the social rhythms of everyday life. Students explore these many dimensions of food, focusing especially on key questions about where it comes from, how it is produced, and how it is embedded in our economic, political, and cultural institutions. Students participate in a service learning internship at Common Thread Community Farm in Madison, NY. Also involves field trips to and guest speakers from local food and farming communities."	ENST	3	"ENST 232 or SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 and students must have an open morning (no other enrolled courses) on Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday, from 8 a.m. until 12 p.m., in order to accommodate the farm internship component of the course."	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
ENST 321	Global Environmental Justice	"Global environmental justice examines both procedural and distributive inequities as well as injustices in political relationships among nation states. Additionally, it places emphasis on a variety of global political issues, which have evolved from environmental concerns that transcend national boundaries. This intermediate course expounds on the concepts and theories of environmental justice from an international perspective. It evaluates the international frame of environmental justice from a human rights perspective and its applicability to different case studies. A close examination of the theoretical North-South relationship, in terms of dependency and exploitation of peripheral (South) countries by core (North) countries, is central to the course. It analyzes a constellation of issues labeled as global environmental justice, such as tribal exterminations, dislocations of marginalized communities, and resource conflicts. Real world examples of environmental justice cases are critically assessed to develop an understanding of the complex relationships among actors that lead to environmental injustices."	ENST	3		Global Engagements		
ENST 324	"Hunting, Eating, Vegetarianism"	"Historically, hunting for food has represented one of the most direct ways in which people have engaged with nature. Some scholars even believe that the “hunting instinct” is a fundamental aspect of human identity. People in modern industrialized societies, however, often have little idea about the origins of the flesh they consume, most of which is raised and slaughtered on an industrial-scale. While the majority continue to eat meat, poultry, and/or fish, a minority have chosen to become vegetarians or even vegans for ethical, religious, cultural, health-oriented, or environmental reasons. Others continue to hunt and fish but within ecosystems dramatically altered by human intervention and amidst cultural landscapes complicated by commercialized and trophy hunting. Drawing upon a wide range of sources including literature, artistic and documentary films, works of popular culture, autobiographical accounts, online hunting (and anti-hunting) forums, diverse web resources, self-reflective essays, and scholarly approaches ranging from animal studies to humanistic ecocriticism, this course investigates the intertwined themes of hunting, industrial versus small-scale farming and fishing, eating, vegetarianism, and the ethical and existential choices they present to members of modern industrialized societies."	ENST	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ENST 333	Environment and Community Health in Africa: A Case Study in Rural Uganda (Extended Study)	"The majority of this extended study is held in villages proximate to Bwindi Impenetrable National Park in southwestern Uganda. The curriculum focuses on health issues including disease prevalence and access to health care in remote villages adjacent to national parks. Ecological dimensions of human health are considered including infectious disease transmission, sanitation and access to water, nutrition and household environment. Students participate in the following educational projects with a diverse array of community leaders: 1) training workshops in research methods for clinical and community health; 2) field studies with health professionals to improve health data collection; 3) community outreach to understand environmental and community health assets and needs in the region. Ideally, students should bring background and interests in environmental studies, biology and geography. Prior research experience is not necessary; however, to be eligible, students must register for or have successfully completed one of the following courses: BIOL 220, 330, 364, 371, 491 (Frey); GEOG 245, 314, 316, 336, 491 (Scull or Kraly)."	ENST	2	BIOL 220 or BIOL 330 or BIOL 364 or BIOL 371 or GEOG 245 or GEOG 314 or GEOG 316 or GEOG 336 (prerequisite may be taken concurrently)			
ENST 335	US Environmental Politics	"Public policies to protect the environment are among the most important and controversial issues in local, state, and national government. This course analyzes the politics of environmental protection in the United States through the use of social science theory and a variety of quantitative and qualitative methods. The course introduces frameworks for understanding environmental policy problems and reviews several important American environmental laws. Readings include social science ""classics"" on the environment, as well as recent scholarship on environmental politics and emerging environmental issues. Topics covered in the course include the politics of environmental science, environmentalism as a social movement, environmental lawmaking in Congress, bureaucracy and environmental regulation, federalism, environmental law, and environmental justice."	ENST	3				
ENST 344	America's Public Lands	"Public land management is inherently complex. Typically there are multiple interested parties and potentially competing goals such as wilderness preservation, recreational accessibility, and resource exploitation. Also, the management of public lands may rest with several agencies. Management decisions made in pursuit of one goal often have implications for other goals, stakeholders, and management agencies. Complexity theory offers a new perspective for understanding the complicated workings of ecosystems, economies, and political systems. Such complex adaptive systems are characterized by feedback loops, chaos, nonlinear dynamics, self-organization, and emergence. The aims of this course are to investigate alternative public land management strategies and apply complexity theory 1) to model qualitatively the intricacies of both natural and human-built systems, 2) to propose and evaluate fresh ecological strategies and management policies for conserving public lands, and 3) to investigate new procedures for mitigating tension among competing interests in the use of public land. The course includes some weekend field trips."	ENST	3	At least two courses related to environmental studies			
ENST 345	Water Pollution	"Examines how chemical properties affect water contaminants' movement in aquatic systems. Using principles of science and engineering, students will examine the toxicity of different manmade and naturally occurring chemicals, applying polynomials and chemistry principles to real world environmental conditions. Students develop scientific analytical skills that will help them to understand the broader field of environmental chemistry. Students explore a range of topics including the acidity (pH) of water and its effect on chemicals' solubility, oxidation-reduction (redox) reactions, and the dissolution of gasses such as carbon dioxide (C02)."	ENST	3				
ENST 389	Conservation Biology & Policy	"Our world is facing unprecedented pressures from global warming, habitat loss, pollution and a myriad of other anthropogenic drivers that are negatively impacting species and ecosystems. The biological discipline that addresses the impacts of these drivers on biodiversity and ecosystem function is Conservation Biology. The step after the identification of a conservation issue is to determine conservation priorities for addressing it, and then formulating evidence-based policy. Students learn the sustainable management of socio-ecological systems using conservation biology and policy studies. Framed around a case study, a long-term research project in the Cardelus lab on the myriad impacts of high deer density on the Village and Town of Hamilton."	ENST	3				"ENST 202, ENST 232"
ENST 389L	Conserv Biology & Policy Lab	Required corequisite to ENST 389.	ENST	1				
ENST 390	Community-based Study of Environmental Issues	"This project-based, interdisciplinary course examines current environmental issues in the context of community-based learning. Topics for investigation are selected by faculty, usually in conjunction with the campus sustainability coordinator, the Upstate Institute, or directly with local and regional agencies or organizations. Students get practical experience working in interdisciplinary teams to examine environmental issues with a goal of developing relevant recommendations."	ENST	3				ENST 202 and ENST 232 are strongly recommended.
ENST 450	Comm-Based Study Env Issues	"Students in this project-based, interdisciplinary course examine current environmental issues in the context of community-based learning. Topics for investigation are selected by faculty, usually in conjunction with the campus sustainability coordinator, the Upstate Institute, or directly with local and regional agencies or organizations. Students get practical experience working in interdisciplinary teams to examine environmental issues with a goal of developing relevant recommendations."	ENST	3	Two courses related to environmental studies			ENST 202 and ENST 232 are strongly recommended
ENST 450L	Community-Based Research Lab	Required corequisite for ENST 450.	ENST	1				
ENST 490	Seminar in Environmental Studies	"In this senior seminar, students discuss the relevant literature (from multiple disciplines) and do research on one or more selected environmental issue or issues, chosen by the instructor. Topics differ from year to year. The goal is to achieve an advanced, interdisciplinary understanding of contemporary environmental issues."	ENST	3	ENST 390 or ENST 389 or permission of the ENST director			
ENST 491	Indp: Honors Thesis	"Opportunity for individual study in areas not covered by formal course offerings, under the guidance of a member of the faculty."	ENST	3				
FMST 200	Introduction to Film and Media Studies	"From the films we watch to the personal profiles we maintain online, media saturates our lives. Film and mass media can be powerful determinants of ideology, identity, and historical consciousness. This course is a historical survey of media technologies and environments, combining course readings with a required weekly film screening. The theoretical concepts introduced in this course enable students to critically approach the visual culture around them: just how immersed are we in the virtual, and what are the strategies for engaging with or disengaging from virtual worlds? Students learn to respond to film and media as proactive, critical, and articulate viewers. Students also acquire the vocabulary, conceptual strategies, and interpretive skills necessary to closely analyze the form and content of film and media, as well as the ability to set their own relation to the ideologies all representations convey."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 200L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 200.	ARTS	0			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 210	Global Cinema	"Explores the production and reception of film in a global context, as well as the various ways individuals and communities around the world create and receive film. Students explore the concept of “national cinema,” the interplay of local aesthetic traditions and transnational industrial and artistic practices, the role of cinema in diasporic communities, and the impact of global capitalism on film production, distribution, and exhibition. Films depicting immigration, exile, the refugee, insider/outsider status, and other modes of geographic movement are explored."	ARTS	3	Students who took FMST 212 in Fall 2021 are not eligible to take FMST 210	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 210L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 210.	ARTS	0				
FMST 212	Global Media: Flows & Counterflows - Borders	"Regulating and being regulated by a variety of information flows on a daily basis from SMS texts, snapchats, and tweets, to live news feeds, corporate data transfers, and government communiques. We increasingly experience our private and public lives as a hypermediated encounter with the world at large. What impact do these media flows have on our experiences of the local and the global? Simultaneously, how should we understand contemporary mass media themselves as ""global""? Have transformations in print, broadcast, and digital media fundamentally altered how we think of the near and the far, the familiar and the foreign, the national and the transnational, the West and the non-West? This course will address these questions through the two structuring notions of the ""flow"" and the ""counter-flow,"" and analyze the role that media play as both a unifying and a divisive agent, consolidating identities and nationalisms in some instances, and de-territorializing the same in others."	ARTS	3	FMST 200 or FSEM 149 or FSEM 163	Global Engagements		
FMST 212L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 212.	ARTS	0				
FMST 224	Introduction to Italian Cinema	"An introduction to major works of Italian cinema from the silent era to contemporary productions. Students will watch and discuss groundbreaking films by Italian directors such as Rossellini, Fellini, Antonioni, Pasolini, Wertmüller, Benigni, and others. Places Italian cinema within the context of European art cinema and film theory, and focuses on the ways these films represent and challenge Italian history, culture, and identity. It emphasizes the study of cinematic analysis and filmmaking techniques, as well as the historical and cultural situation in Italy from the 1920s to the present. Students are required to attend weekly screenings in addition to regular class meetings. Taught in English, with the option of a discussion group in Italian."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 224L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite for FMST 224.	ARTS	0			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 225	Visual Rhetorics	"Approaches the study of rhetoric by foregrounding the dynamic relationship of text and image. How does a writer's combination of verbal and visual elements communicate different arguments when circulated among different audiences? How do verbal/visual texts imitate, represent, and/or constitute cultural identities, norms, values, or practices? With the goal of becoming effective rhetorical critics, as well as incisive consumers and producers of visual culture, students in this course study a variety of visual texts in print and electronic form and examine these texts' complex powers of persuasion. The primary work is to develop and strengthen fluency in rhetorical discourse and visual literacy, as students work to perceive and analyze, as well as design and create, verbal-visual texts."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 230	LGBTQ Cinema/Transnational	"Examines lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer film cultures from transnational and global perspectives. Courses on LGBTQ cinema most often focus on North America and Western Europe, well-known for their prolific output of gay, lesbian, and transgender film and media. Less frequently included are the wide range of films produced (since the 1980s and 1990s) from India, Thailand, Hong Kong, Egypt, Tunisia, Guinea, Uganda, Israel, and Russia. Anazlying these films alongside contemporary theoretical discussions of gender and sexuality, students explore how LGBTQ concerns from non-Western countries continue to test the possibilities of film and media aesthetics and politics, and bring the cinematic form in dialogue with the complexities and geopolitics of gender and sexuality."	ARTS	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 230L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 230.	ARTS	0			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 246	Intro to Performance Studies	"What is performance? The verb ""to perform"" can be variously defined as ""to carry out an action,"" ""to discharge a duty,"" ""to accomplish a task,"" and ""to present to an audience."" Interdisciplinary in nature, students explores performance in the context of the performing and media arts, as well as in the context of ritual, politics, and everyday life. Emphasizes the relationship between performance and race, gender, sexuality, and other vectors of identity: how are various types of difference enacted, articulated, and represented through performative acts?"	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 270	The Rhetoric of Comics	"Focuses on the ways that comics - often defined as the interplay of words and images - convey specific messages, whether instructional, narrative, persuasive, or other. Close analyses draw on principles of visual rhetoric, comics scholarship, photography, and related disciplines. Readings cover the theory, history, terminology, and genres of graphic narratives."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 288	New Media: History and Theory from Netflix to VR	"Focusing on 21st century media production and consumption, students explore the impact of digital technologies on film, television, and social media. In addition to viewing a wide range of recent and contemporary works, from web documentaries to interactive films and Virtual Reality, ""New Media"" engages more directly and materially with contemporary moving images, industries, and infrastructures. The course addresses key issues in recent film and media theory by historicizing and contextualizing recent debates surrounding movie-going, connected viewing, interactivity, and streaming."	ARTS	3	FMST 200 or FSEM 163		Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 288L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 288.	ARTS	0				
FMST 303	The Rhetoric of Data Visualization & Infographics	Our world is increasingly visual; more and more of the information we consume and produce is presented in images. This course focuses on the visual presentation of numerical information - everything from box-and-whisker plots to flashy infographics - and specifically how such information can effectively persuade its readers. Emphasis will be on both analyzing and making visualizations; there will be no attention to data collection or analysis. Students can expect to improve their visual literacy skills; no facility with statistics or software packages is required.	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 321	Disability Media	"Considers contemporary media, film and art practice through the lens of disability studies. Students begin from the premise that media, technology and disability are inextricably linked, as all technology is fundamentally “assistive” technology. Discourses of disability consider both varying forms of difference experienced by the disabled body and underline the unique capacities, limitations, and vulnerabilities of all bodies. Students are challenged to think beyond culture’s normative ""compulsory able-bodiedness.” Coursework includes weekly responses to readings and audio /visual material, a midterm essay, practice-based exercises and a final project."	ARTS	3	FMST 200		Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 333	Documentary Film: Social Justice Documentaries	"Surveys the traditions of personal, experimental, ethnographic, and political documentary filmmaking. This overview of the history and aesthetics of documentary examines its origins, forms, goals, and contemporary styles while at the same time problematizing its canonical readings and reception. Issues covered include documentary styles, documentary representation of history and memory, the filmmaker’s relationship to the subject and the viewer, and the impact of technology on documentary techniques. Particular attention is paid to the influence that certain social and political movements have had on documentaries and filmmakers. A required film series accompanying the class includes works by directors such as Flaherty, Riefenstahl, Wiseman, Rouch, Morris, Moffatt, and many others."	ARTS	3	FMST 200 or FSEM 149 or a cinema studies course		Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 333L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 333.	ARTS	0				
FMST 340	"Music, Film, & Media"	"Explores the various ways in which sound and music have functioned in visual and sonic media. Tracing the history of sound(ing) media from the advent of the phonograph and the rise of radio through silent film and classical Hollywood cinema, to the concept album and music on television, and finally, to the turn to the digital and sound “in the cloud,” students examine a series of musical media “objects” and the theory, rhetoric, and practice that has surrounded them. Particular attention will be devoted to the integration of film, music, and media industries and the ways in which music and sound work with other elements of film and media to reflect and construct social and cultural identities. Through readings, screenings, and written assignments, students acquire the tools and language to analyze and discuss the complex ways in which music, film, and media interact."	ARTS	3	FMST 200 or FSEM 149		Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 340L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 340.	ARTS	0				
FMST 341E	Performing & Media Arts Ext St	"A three-week extended study course for students who have taken Global Theater (THEA/ENGL 349) or Music, Film and Media (FMST 340). The extended study offers students an immersive experience in Hong Kong's vibrant performing and media arts scene. It includes visits to live performances, film screenings, museums, and galleries, as well as lectures and walking tours with Hong Kong-based scholars on the city's history, arts, and culture."	ARTS	2	FMST 340 or (THEA 349 or ENGL 349)			
FMST 360	Cultural Hist of the Internet	"Examines the emergence, development, and socio-political outcomes of the explosion of online networks and social groups in the 20th and 21st Century. As the lines between the virtual and the real comingle with increasing fluidity, the defining characteristics of community, society, democracy, nation, and selfhood are fundamentally transformed. The hyper-accelerated and globalizing force of the Internet has been met with triumphalism from cyber-utopians and vehement caution from skeptics. Only one thing is certain, the organizing forces of online life have transformed the social fabric of global society. Examining the fluctuating character of citizenship, community, social identity, leisure, labor and economy, love and sexuality, privacy, and social mobilization, we will examine a cross-section of literature on post-Internet life."	ARTS	3	FMST 200 or ARTS 100		Human Thought and Expression	
FMST 375	Media and Politics	"Uses a social scientific approach to examine the role that the media plays in American politics. Key areas of inquiry include the function of the media in democracy, the news-making process, campaigning through the news, political advertising, media effects, governing through the news, and infotainment/satire."	ARTS	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or FMST 200		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FMST 390	Special Topics in Film and Media Studies: Ethics of AI	"Offers an advanced level study of a specific and narrowed field within the discipline of film and media studies. Each year, students focus on topics that reflect the breadth of film and media studies at Hudson. Faculty teach in the area of their scholarly expertise on a rotating basis. Focus may be on an in-depth study of a filmmaker, or a school of film, or genre, or focus on an advanced study of the history and theory of television or media, among other things."	ARTS	3	FMST 200			
FMST 390L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST	ARTS	0				
FMST 400	Tps:African Cinema& Filmmaking	"This seminar offers an advanced level study of a specific and narrowed field within the discipline of film and media studies. Each year, this course focuses on topics that reflect the breadth of film and media studies at Hudson. Faculty teach in the area of their scholarly expertise on a rotating basis. The seminar may focus on an in-depth study of a filmmaker, or a school of film, or genre, or focus on an advanced study of the history and theory of television or media, among other things."	ARTS	3	and one additional course in the FMST minor			
FMST 400L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to FMST 400.	ARTS	0				
FMST 410	Senior Seminar in Film and Media Studies	"Examines a constellation of debates, topics, and methods in film and media studies. Emphasis is placed on close analysis of media objects, critical evaluation of contemporary film and media theory and methodologies, and the application of interdisciplinary approaches. Topics for consideration might include: modernity and mass culture; media aesthetics, politics, and power; film and media historiography; spectatorship practices; media and identity; film and the digital; media installations and site specificity; and spectacle and surveillance."	ARTS	3	FMST 200			
FMST 490	Senior Seminar in FMST	"Examines a constellation of debates, topics, and methods in film and media studies. Emphasis is placed on close analysis of media objects, critical evaluation of contemporary film and media theory and methodologies, and the application of interdisciplinary approaches. Topics for consideration might include: modernity and mass culture; media aesthetics, politics, and power; film and media historiography; spectatorship practices; media and identity; film and the digital; media installations and site specificity; and spectacle and surveillance."	ARTS	3				
FREN 121	Introduction to French Language & Culture I	"The FREN 121,122 sequence is a highly interactive course that introduces students to the basic skills of understanding, speaking, reading and writing in the French language. The sequence acquaints students with the rich world of Francophone culture through conversations, the discussion of short texts, the French language table and coffee hours, film, and other resources. Online tools help students understand and appreciate the nuances of French grammar, vocabulary, and expression."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 122	Introduction to French Language & Culture II	"FREN 122 builds upon the skills of understanding, speaking, reading and writing in the French language acquired in FREN 121. Increased proficiency in speaking is achieved through class presentations, debates, films and discussions relating to contemporary issues in the Francophone world."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 201	Intermed French: Conv & Comp	"Designed to improve students’ ability to understand, speak, read, and write French. Class time is devoted to communication activities, a study of intermediate grammar, conversational vocabulary, and Francophone culture."	RMLL	3	"Two or three years of secondary-school French, or a one- year college elementary French course"		Human Thought and Expression	"May be taken as a refresher course by students who studied French in secondary school as follows: three years of study ending at least one-half year before, four years of study ending at least a year and a half before."
FREN 202	"Intermediate French: Language, Culture, and Literature"	"Designed to increase the student’s ability to understand, speak, read, and write French. Study includes a review of the more difficult points of intermediate grammar, vocabulary, conversational practice, and short compositions. Additionally, focus is on building familiarity with concepts and skills necessary for the study of literature. Through the practice of the language, the reading of short literary texts, and the use of other materials, students are introduced to diverse aspects of French and Francophone cultures."	RMLL	3	"Three to four years of secondary-school French, or FREN 201 or equivalent"	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	Students with more than four years of HS French should not register for FR 202. Those students should register for the appropriate 300-level courses.
FREN 351	Introduction to Literature in French: From Chivalry to Versailles	"As an introduction, through reading and discussion, to three diverse and formative periods of French literature, this course shows the inspiration and variety of expression that mark each period. Readings include selections from La Chanson de Roland, courtly romance, the fabliaux (all medieval writings are read in modern French versions); prose and poetry of Renaissance France; tragic and comic writers of the French classical theater."	RMLL	3	At least four years of secondary-school French or FREN 202		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 352	Introduction to French Literature: Birth of the Modern	"Studies major works, principal authors, and literary movements of French literature in the 18th and 19th centuries."	RMLL	3	At least four years of secondary-school French or FREN 202		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 353	Introduction to French Literature: Literary Innovations in the 20th to 21st Centuries	"Offers a close reading of some representative works of the 20th and 21st centuries. Selections are chosen from the shorter fiction, drama, and poetry of major French writers and studied in the context of French history and major intellectual, literary, and artistic movements. Authors may include Apollinaire, Gide, Sartre, Camus, Ionesco, Ponge, Ernaux and Modiano."	RMLL	3	At least four years of secondary-school French or FREN 202		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 354	Introduction to French Literature: The Francophone World	"Offers an overview of various bodies of literature written in French outside of France, focusing on five main geographical areas that historically constituted the French empire: the Caribbean, North Africa, West and Central Africa, Asia, and North America. Full texts as well as excerpts from a variety of genres are studied in the context of the history and geography of those regions. Through the exploration of key literary texts, particular attention is given to the effects of colonialism on language, identity, and artistic creation."	RMLL	3	At least four years of secondary-school French or FREN 202	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 361	"French Composition, Grammar, and Conversation"	"Structured as a review of grammatical principles with emphasis on correctness in expository composition in French. Not open to students who score 5 on the AP language exam, except by special permission of instructor. Must be taken on campus to fulfill major or minor requirements."	RMLL	3	FREN 351 or FREN 352 or FREN 353 or FREN 354		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 421	The Classical Stage	"Traces the development of French theater through close readings of major and influential theatrical works from the 17th and 18th centuries. Major dramatic genres such as tragedy, comedy, and Romantic drama and their development are examined in their historical and cultural contexts. Through critical readings of these plays, students identify an evolving sensibility concerning the definition of the hero and the contingencies of fate, love, and personal choice. Students consider as well the shifting set of literary conventions through which playwright and audience negotiated these ideas. Authors studied may include Corneille, Racine, Molière, Marivaux, and Beaumarchais."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 423	The 18th-Century Epistolary Novel in France	"Examines some of the French 18th century's most celebrated ""letter novels."" Through readings of Montesquieu, Graffigny, Rousseau, and Laclos, the course focuses on the formal and thematic development of the epistolary genre over a period of some 60 years. The novels are read against a historical background stretching from the reign of Louis XIV through the French Revolution."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 425	Libertine Fiction of 18th Cent	"Beginning in the 17th century under the label libertinage érudit, libertine fiction evolves into a major genre in the Enlightenment. The course follows its development through readings of Prèvost, Crébillon fils, Diderot, Denon, and Sade, and explores the following questions: How do philosophy, fiction, and sexual politics coalesce in libertine literature? How can one reconcile libertinage - a way of living and writing frequently reduced to passion and sensuality - with the broader currents of the most ""rational"" century in French literary history? An exploration of libertine literature thus entails a focus on cultural history, and serves as a point of departure for a broader reflection on the Enlightenment."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 429	The Age of Enlightenment	"Examines some of the relationships between Enlightenment thought and the dominant forms of written expression in the French 18th century. Through readings, students consider a number of the Enlightenment's most pressing concerns, such as moral and political philosophy, religious and civil tolerance, natural law, and the role of literature and the arts in society, among others. Authors read include Voltaire, Rousseau, Diderot, Beaumarchais, and Sade."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 430	Lit of Adventure and Quest	Studies the evolution and transmutation of conventions of quest literature from the Middle Ages to the present day. Examines the significance of the changes within the genre as reflections of the cultures from which they emerge. Readings range from the romances of Chrétien de Troyes to the contemporary French novel.	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 433	The Court of Louis XIV	"The theme of the court is used to explore the major works in prose and poetry of classical France, reading these works as examples both of insightful social analysis and of outstanding achievements in literary style and art. Readings are drawn primarily from the works of Madame de Sévigné, Racine, Pascal, La Rochefoucauld, Madame de Lafayette, and La Bruyère. Key topics include the relationship between writer and society in 17th-century France, Versailles as a theatrical setting for the Sun-King, and literature as both social commentary and divertissement. The seminar also studies the theme of the court as it is expressed in 17th-century painting and music."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 441	Readings in French Poetry I	"Focuses on some of the major poets of the 19th century, by studying their work in the context of the greater political, social, and historical events of the time. Readings concentrate on representative texts of the following poets: Lamartine, Alfred de Vigny, Marceline Desbordes-Valmore, Hugo, Baudelaire, Rimbaud, Mallarmé, and others."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 445	20th Cent French Autobiography	"Examines the development and specificities of 20th-century autobiographical texts. While the main focus is on the texts themselves, some related theoretical problems are also considered, such as the conditions and possibility of writing the ""self""; autobiography's link to other types of personal writings; its relationship to fiction; and its role in our modern definition of ""humanity."" This genre being rooted in questions of the emergence of the ""self,"" particular attention is given to writers who, because of their gender and/or sexual identity and their designation as francophone writers, were traditionally regarded as ""other."" Authors read may include Gide, Sartre, Beauvoir, Sarraute, Leiris, Yourcenar, Bigras, Bouraoui, Tremblay."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level French literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 450	20th-Century French Literature	"This seminar examines some of the most important novels and plays of the first half of the 20th century, until World War II. Authors read generally include Gide, Proust, Breton, Malraux, and Giraudoux. The following questions are discussed: How did these writers see their role in the rapidly changing social and political climate of the period? How did they transform the two dominant literary modes of the end of the 19th century (naturalism and symbolism) to express more modern concerns? How is one to understand the emergence of an introspective hero who so often searches for his or her identity on the margins of society?"	RMLL	3	Two 350-level French literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 453	Contemporary Literature in French	"Focuses on major works of literature written in French in the late 20th and 21st centuries. Examines how questions of individual and collective identity, agency, and intersectionality inform literary expression, and how literature can be used to make sense of those questions. Through the study of select texts from France and the francophone world,students are invited to consider the role of history and the place of individual voices in complex colonial and post-colonial contexts. Authors may include de Beauvoir, Duras, Sarraute, Djebar, Bey, Cixous, and Chami."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level French literature courses	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 455	Francophone Voices from North Africa	"This seminar examines the literature written in French by Maghrebi and Beur women authors since the early 1980s. The product of a colonial and post-colonial history, this is a literature where cultures, histories, identities, genres, and languages intersect. It gives voice to new questions of identity and self-definition through the exploration of traditional as well as innovative forms of writing. In order to establish the historical and cultural contexts in which this body of literature has emerged and is growing, the course includes an overview of the history of Franco-Maghrebi relations and Maghrebi immigration to France. Through the reading of texts by Maghrebi and Beur authors, this course explores and discusses issues such as imperialism and colonialism, post-colonialism, cultural translocation, identity politics, gender and race, religion, multilingualism, sexuality, urban development and design, etc."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 481	Major French Authors: Crossroads: Literature of Medieval and Early Modern Voyages	"What is to be gained from travel on individual and communal levels? To what extent are current views of migration and globalization informed by medieval and early modern travel? We will consider those questions through the study of travel narratives from the Middle Ages through the 18th century. In particular, we will analyze how literature reimagines voyages and thus informs an evolving understanding of the world and its peoples. We will consider texts in relation to historical contexts, including maps, and study authors and figures such as Marco Polo, Saint Brendan, Charlemagne, Jacques Cartier, Samuel de Champlain, Montaigne, and Montesquieu."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 482	"Major French Authors: Twilight Zone: The ""Fantastique"" in (19th-century) French Literature"	"Throughout history, people have tried to explain events they do not understand by appealing either to reason or to the supernatural. This tenuous relationship between the real and the surreal takes many forms in French and Francophone literatures, but it arguably reaches its apex in 19th century France. Following—and largely in response to—the Age of Reason, the fantastique brings to the fore the elusiveness of knowledge and emotions, setting them against the real and the known. By looking at a range of texts throughout the 19th century, students analyze the psychological and social ramifications of the unknown and otherworldly in relation to the dominant literary and cultural movements of the period, including Realism, Romanticism, Naturalism, and Symbolism. In addition, students examine the ways in which the fantastique in 19th-century French literature reflects the beliefs and anxieties of a rapidly evolving and politically unstable society. Students study authors such as Guy de Maupassant, Théophile Gautier, Prosper Mérimée, and Villiers de l’Isle-Adam, and draw from theorists including Sigmund Freud and Tzvetan Todorov."	RMLL	3	Two 350-level literature courses		Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 490	Honors	Students pursuing honors in French enroll in this course.	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
FREN 591	Intro French Lang & Cultr II		RMLL	3				
FREN 592	Intermed French: Conv & Comp		RMLL	3				
FSEM 100	Legacies of the Ancient World	"Explores ancient texts that articulate perennial issues, such as the nature of the human and the divine; virtue and the good life; the true, the just, and the beautiful; the difference between subjective opinion and objective knowledge. These texts exemplify basic modes of speech, literary forms, and patterns of thinking that establish the terminology of academic and intellectual discourse and critical thought across many different societies: epic, rhetoric, tragedy, poetry, epistemology, science, democracy, rationality, the soul, spirit, law, grace. Such terms have shaped the patterns of life, norms, and prejudices that human communities have continually challenged, criticized, and refashioned throughout history. To highlight both the dialogue and conflicts between the texts and the traditions they embody, this course, taught by a multidisciplinary staff and in an interdisciplinary manner, focuses on both the historical contexts of these texts and the ongoing retellings and reinterpretations of them through time. The course includes texts from the ancient Mediterranean world that have given rise to some of the philosophical, political, religious, and artistic traditions associated with “The West,” emphasizing that Western traditions were not formed in a vacuum but developed in dialogue and conflict with other traditions. Common to all sections of this component are classic works such as Homer, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, Plato, and a Roman text. Complementary texts or visual materials from the ancient period, in and beyond the Western world, and/or response texts from the medieval or contemporary periods are added by faculty in individual sections. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 151 and satisfy the Legacies of the Ancient World core requirement."		3		Legacies of Ancient World		
FSEM 101	Legacies of the Ancient World	"Explores ancient texts that articulate perennial issues, such as the nature of the human and the divine; virtue and the good life; the true, the just, and the beautiful; the difference between subjective opinion and objective knowledge. These texts exemplify basic modes of speech, literary forms, and patterns of thinking that establish the terminology of academic and intellectual discourse and critical thought across many different societies: epic, rhetoric, tragedy, poetry, epistemology, science, democracy, rationality, the soul, spirit, law, grace. Such terms have shaped the patterns of life, norms, and prejudices that human communities have continually challenged, criticized, and refashioned throughout history. To highlight both the dialogue and conflicts between the texts and the traditions they embody, this course, taught by a multidisciplinary staff and in an interdisciplinary manner, focuses on both the historical contexts of these texts and the ongoing retellings and reinterpretations of them through time. The course includes texts from the ancient Mediterranean world that have given rise to some of the philosophical, political, religious, and artistic traditions associated with “The West,” emphasizing that Western traditions were not formed in a vacuum but developed in dialogue and conflict with other traditions. Common to all sections of this component are classic works such as Homer, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, Plato, and a Roman text. Complementary texts or visual materials from the ancient period, in and beyond the Western world, and/or response texts from the medieval or contemporary periods are added by faculty in individual sections. In this section, students explore a few texts of such stunning insight, beauty, and power that they—along with a few other works—created a civilization; they continue to challenge and inform the best minds in the world. If you want to understand—or rather, begin to understand—human dignity, honor, friendship, faith and the divine, laughter, justice, wisdom, beauty, courage, leadership, citizenship, virtue, power, authority, and sacrifice, you’d be well advised to start here! Be forewarned, these works will not give you any direct answers, a simple set of ideas you can copy down and claim thereby to possess wisdom. In fact, these texts don’t entirely square with one another. Indeed, it is their tension--in effect, their arguments with one another--that forms the fabric of the civilization they created. And a further warning: these works yield their richness only upon serious, rigorous, and sustained effort. Happily, that effort can also be a great delight, as well as a fulfillment of a Hudson requirement."		3		Legacies of Ancient World		
FSEM 102	Legacies of the Ancient World	"Explores ancient texts that articulate perennial issues, such as the nature of the human and the divine; virtue and the good life; the true, the just, and the beautiful; the difference between subjective opinion and objective knowledge. These texts exemplify basic modes of speech, literary forms, and patterns of thinking that establish the terminology of academic and intellectual discourse and critical thought across many different societies: epic, rhetoric, tragedy, poetry, epistemology, science, democracy, rationality, the soul, spirit, law, grace. Such terms have shaped the patterns of life, norms, and prejudices that human communities have continually challenged, criticized, and refashioned throughout history. To highlight both the dialogue and conflicts between the texts and the traditions they embody, this course, taught by a multidisciplinary staff and in an interdisciplinary manner, focuses on both the historical contexts of these texts and the ongoing retellings and reinterpretations of them through time. The course includes texts from the ancient Mediterranean world that have given rise to some of the philosophical, political, religious, and artistic traditions associated with “The West,” emphasizing that Western traditions were not formed in a vacuum but developed in dialogue and conflict with other traditions. Common to all sections of this component are classic works such as Homer, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, Plato, and a Roman text. Complementary texts or visual materials from the ancient period, in and beyond the Western world, and/or response texts from the medieval or contemporary periods are added by faculty in individual sections. This section of CORE 151 spends several weeks on texts from Ancient China."		3		Legacies of Ancient World		
FSEM 103	Legacies of the Ancient World	"Explores ancient texts that articulate perennial issues, such as the nature of the human and the divine; virtue and the good life; the true, the just, and the beautiful; the difference between subjective opinion and objective knowledge. These texts exemplify basic modes of speech, literary forms, and patterns of thinking that establish the terminology of academic and intellectual discourse and critical thought across many different societies: epic, rhetoric, tragedy, poetry, epistemology, science, democracy, rationality, the soul, spirit, law, grace. Such terms have shaped the patterns of life, norms, and prejudices that human communities have continually challenged, criticized, and refashioned throughout history. To highlight both the dialogue and conflicts between the texts and the traditions they embody, this course, taught by a multidisciplinary staff and in an interdisciplinary manner, focuses on both the historical contexts of these texts and the ongoing retellings and reinterpretations of them through time. The course includes texts from the ancient Mediterranean world that have given rise to some of the philosophical, political, religious, and artistic traditions associated with “The West,” emphasizing that Western traditions were not formed in a vacuum but developed in dialogue and conflict with other traditions. Common to all sections of this component are classic works such as Homer, the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, Plato, and a Roman text. Complementary texts or visual materials from the ancient period, in and beyond the Western world, and/or response texts from the medieval or contemporary periods are added by faculty in individual sections. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 151 and satisfy the Legacies of the Ancient World core requirement."		3		Legacies of Ancient World		
FSEM 105	Challenges of Modernity	"Modernity is a crucial element of the intellectual legacy to which we are heirs. A matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last quarter millennium, modernity has introduced new problems and possibilities into human life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, identity, and morality have been critiqued in distinctive ways. People of different social classes, racial groups, ethnic backgrounds, genders and sexual identities have contributed to an increasingly rich public discourse. The human psyche has been problematized, and the dynamic character of the world, both natural and social, has been explored. Urbanization and technological development have transformed the patterns of everyday life. Imperialism has had a complex and lasting impact on the entire globe. The human capability to ameliorate social and physical ills has increased exponentially, and yet so has the human capacity for mass destruction and exploitation. In this course, taught by an interdisciplinary staff, students explore texts from a variety of media that engage with the ideas and phenomena central to modernity. To ensure a substantially common experience for students, the staff each year chooses texts to be taught in all sections of the course. This component of the Core Curriculum encourages students to think broadly and critically about the world that they inhabit, asking them to see their contemporary concerns in the perspective of the long-standing discourses of modernity. FSEM 105:What is modernity, and when did it begin? This slippery term has been variously dated to the European “discovery” of the Americas (1492), the crystallization of the scientific method (c1620), the dawn of the Enlightenment (c1650), the beginning of the industrial revolution (c1760), and the rejection of traditional forms in Western literature, theater, music, and visual art (c1860). This course interrogates each of these hypothetical points of origin, asking how the various strands of modernity—political, scientific, philosophical, economic, and artistic—have shaped the world we live in today."		3		Challenges of Modernity		
FSEM 106	Challenges of Modernity	"Modernity is a crucial element of the intellectual legacy to which we are heirs. A matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last quarter millennium, modernity has introduced new problems and possibilities into human life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, identity, and morality have been critiqued in distinctive ways. People of different social classes, racial groups, ethnic backgrounds, genders and sexual identities have contributed to an increasingly rich public discourse. The human psyche has been problematized, and the dynamic character of the world, both natural and social, has been explored. Urbanization and technological development have transformed the patterns of everyday life. Imperialism has had a complex and lasting impact on the entire globe. The human capability to ameliorate social and physical ills has increased exponentially, and yet so has the human capacity for mass destruction and exploitation. In this course, taught by an interdisciplinary staff, students explore texts from a variety of media that engage with the ideas and phenomena central to modernity. To ensure a substantially common experience for students, the staff each year chooses texts to be taught in all sections of the course. This component of the Core Curriculum encourages students to think broadly and critically about the world that they inhabit, asking them to see their contemporary concerns in the perspective of the long-standing discourses of modernity. Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Challenges of Modernity core requirement."		3		Challenges of Modernity		
FSEM 107	Challenges of Modernity	"Modernity is a crucial element of the intellectual legacy to which we are heirs. A matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last quarter millennium, modernity has introduced new problems and possibilities into human life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, identity, and morality have been critiqued in distinctive ways. People of different social classes, racial groups, ethnic backgrounds, genders and sexual identities have contributed to an increasingly rich public discourse. The human psyche has been problematized, and the dynamic character of the world, both natural and social, has been explored. Urbanization and technological development have transformed the patterns of everyday life. Imperialism has had a complex and lasting impact on the entire globe. The human capability to ameliorate social and physical ills has increased exponentially, and yet so has the human capacity for mass destruction and exploitation. In this course, taught by an interdisciplinary staff, students explore texts from a variety of media that engage with the ideas and phenomena central to modernity. To ensure a substantially common experience for students, the staff each year chooses texts to be taught in all sections of the course. This component of the Core Curriculum encourages students to think broadly and critically about the world that they inhabit, asking them to see their contemporary concerns in the perspective of the long-standing discourses of modernity. Students explore some generative texts (primarily verbal and visual) that can contribute to our breadth of perspective as we encounter the flux and dynamism that is fundamental to contemporary life. It is a course intended to challenge many of the assumptions that each of us might make regarding the world around us and to enhance our capacity to think across a variety of expressive media. It is also a course that reminds us that profound voices from the past, such as those of W. E. B. DuBois or Virginia Woolf or Friedrich Nietzsche or Pablo Picasso, may enhance our wisdom as we wrestle with the issues and confusions of today. Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Challenges of Modernity core requirement. Robert McVaugh is in the Art and Art History Department and studies art and architecture of the 19th and 20th centuries. He has participated frequently within the Core Program."		3		Challenges of Modernity		
FSEM 108	Challenges of Modernity	"Modernity is a crucial element of the intellectual legacy to which we are heirs. A matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last quarter millennium, modernity has introduced new problems and possibilities into human life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, identity, and morality have been critiqued in distinctive ways. People of different social classes, racial groups, ethnic backgrounds, genders and sexual identities have contributed to an increasingly rich public discourse. The human psyche has been problematized, and the dynamic character of the world, both natural and social, has been explored. Urbanization and technological development have transformed the patterns of everyday life. Imperialism has had a complex and lasting impact on the entire globe. The human capability to ameliorate social and physical ills has increased exponentially, and yet so has the human capacity for mass destruction and exploitation. In this course, taught by an interdisciplinary staff, students explore texts from a variety of media that engage with the ideas and phenomena central to modernity. To ensure a substantially common experience for students, the staff each year chooses texts to be taught in all sections of the course. This component of the Core Curriculum encourages students to think broadly and critically about the world that they inhabit, asking them to see their contemporary concerns in the perspective of the long-standing discourses of modernity. Students explore some generative texts (primarily verbal and visual) that can contribute to our breadth of perspective as we encounter the flux and dynamism that is fundamental to contemporary life. It is a course intended to challenge many of the assumptions that each of us might make regarding the world around us and to enhance our capacity to think across a variety of expressive media. It is also a course that reminds us that profound voices from the past, such as those of W. E. B. DuBois or Virginia Woolf or Friedrich Nietzsche or Pablo Picasso, may enhance our wisdom as we wrestle with the issues and confusions of today. Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Challenges of Modernity core requirement. Ben Stahlberg is broadly interested in the ways in which intellectuals think about (and often re-envision) religion. Of late he has been working on the ways in which Judaism has been rethought or re-conceived after the Holocaust."		3		Challenges of Modernity		
FSEM 109	Challenges of Modernity	"Modernity is a crucial element of the intellectual legacy to which we are heirs. A matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last quarter millennium, modernity has introduced new problems and possibilities into human life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, identity, and morality have been critiqued in distinctive ways. People of different social classes, racial groups, ethnic backgrounds, genders and sexual identities have contributed to an increasingly rich public discourse. The human psyche has been problematized, and the dynamic character of the world, both natural and social, has been explored. Urbanization and technological development have transformed the patterns of everyday life. Imperialism has had a complex and lasting impact on the entire globe. The human capability to ameliorate social and physical ills has increased exponentially, and yet so has the human capacity for mass destruction and exploitation. In this course, taught by an interdisciplinary staff, students explore texts from a variety of media that engage with the ideas and phenomena central to modernity. To ensure a substantially common experience for students, the staff each year chooses texts to be taught in all sections of the course. This component of the Core Curriculum encourages students to think broadly and critically about the world that they inhabit, asking them to see their contemporary concerns in the perspective of the long-standing discourses of modernity. In this section, students engage together with a matrix of intellectual, social, and material forces that have transformed the world over the last half-millenium and continue to shape modern life. Within modernity, issues of meaning, morality, knowledge, identity, power, choice, and the very nature of what it is to be a human, both publicly and privately, are common life themes experienced by diverse but also disproportionately represented populations. Like modernity itself, Challenges of Modernity functions within Hudson’s curriculum as a common experience which inevitably and intentionally produces difference. Here in this section, students critically evaluate the same texts each year in order to elicit and analyze a range of perspectives and interpretations, and to deepen our understanding of the texture of commonality. The aim is to think broadly and critically about the shared world we inhabit, and to see our contemporary concerns in perspective relative to history and long-standing discourses. The work students do in this course feeds whatever discipline they major in, and whatever profession they assume. Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Challenges of Modernity core requirement."		3		Challenges of Modernity		
FSEM 110	Russia: East and West	"Extending from the arctic north to the semi-arid south and from the European West to the Asian East, Russia is the world’s largest country and one of the most diverse countries on Earth. Students explore multiple aspects of Russian society and culture, past and present. Tracing Russia’s cultural self-image and national identity through more than a century of massive social engineering and multiple socioeconomic and political changes, students consider Russia’s distinctiveness; its place in the world; its collective struggles, successes, and failures; and how these are understood and contested by Russians and the global community. Using multiple media and texts, students examine peoples’ everyday lives in the Soviet period and afterwards, focusing on socioeconomic, cultural, and environmental transformation framed by ideas of authoritarianism and utopianism. Students also look at popular images of Russia in our Western media and discuss how the creation of certain ideas and images of other nations results in stereotypes and possible misunderstandings of people and place. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 187C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 111	China	"China has the distinction of being one of the world’s oldest continuous cultures, with 5,000 years of rich, complex history. Today, it is also a rising international power with the second largest economy on the globe. This first-year seminar approaches China not as a monolithic entity, but as a complicated place and people best understood through diverse perspectives, including but not limited to history, economics, geography, literature, art, politics, environment, society, ethnicity, gender, migration, and diaspora. Students also gain indispensable research skills as they develop their own projects. This FSEM counts toward the Asian Studies major/minor. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 165C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 112	The Caribbean	"The archipelago of islands and mainland nations called the Caribbean constitutes a complex montage of races, ethnic groups, and languages. Students use art, literature, music, and film to examine the legacies of colonialism and enslavement, historical and contemporary conversations about race, religion, and resistance, and issues of sexuality and gender identity politics in the region. In this discussion-based class, the works studied ask us to put our own learning and lived experiences into conversation with the cultural and historical contexts we explore. This way, students gain insight into numerous competing perspectives of the Caribbean and how these images are constructed, as well as interrogate the ways that we construct our own identities and how we think about issues of race and Blackness, religion, tourism, and migration in US society and beyond. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 163C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement. Paul Humphrey (he/him pronouns) teaches classes in Caribbean studies and LGBTQ studies. His research focuses on gender, sexuality, and religion in literature and comics of the Spanish- and French-speaking Caribbean and their North American diasporas."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 113	Japan	"Once known primarily for having an extraordinarily vital economy, Japan today is best known abroad for cultural exports such as manga, anime, sushi, and J-pop. The phenomenon of Japan's ""soft power"" has much to do with ideas and preconceptions about Japaneseness, both in Japan and elsewhere, and in this course students subject those ideas and preconceptions to a searching analysis. Through a close examination of Japanese literary texts; image-based works such as manga, anime, films, and paintings; Japanese material culture; and essays by scholars of Japan, students learn more about contemporary Japanese culture and society. Students also acquire and practice indispensable research and writing skills as they develop their own projects. This course does not require any prior knowledge of Japanese culture or language, and all materials are available in English.Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for CORE 167C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement. All Japanophiles have a story that explains what they love about Japan: for some people, it's anime; for others, it's Japanese music; for still others, it's Japanese cuisine. For me, it was Japanese literature, which remains my primary research interest. In my courses on Japanese culture, students build on their own interests, so that everyone in the classroom--the instructor included--is learning from each other."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 114	Ethiopia	"Surveys the culture, religion, communities, history, and socio-economic developments of Ethiopia from the ancient times to the modern period. Ethiopia is home to over 80 ethnic groups with striking cultures that are distinct from Western traditions. Major themes include peoples and languages; traditional customs and beliefs; Christianity and Islam; marriages; community service organizations; literature, novels; education; ethnic relations; traditional art and music; colonial resistance; sports; socio-economic developments; natural resources usage; Ethiopia and Europe; the Ethiopian revolution; Ethiopian immigrants in the United States; traditional harmful practices; and politics. Emphasis is also given to contemporary issues. Lectures are supplemented by discussions, film presentation, group activity, and coffee ceremony. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for CORE 173C and satisfy the Communities and Identities core requirement. Originally from Ethiopia,"		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 115	Mexico	"Offers an interdisciplinary introduction to the history, people, art, and cultures of Mexico, a country of diverse ethnic, sexual, gendered, class, and political identities that shares a 2,000-mile border with the United States. Students are presented the ways in which identities and communities are socially constructed, imposed, resisted, negotiated, dismantled, and reconstituted through an in-depth study of Mexico, both past and present. How does Mexico’s colonial past inform the present? On what terms has a Mexican national identity been defined and who is included or excluded from rights and citizenship? Objectives are to examine Mexico’s complex history and social fabric; to study Mexican identities, politics, and cultural expressions with relation to this history; and to gain a general understanding of contemporary Mexico in the context of current events and Mexico’s relationship to the United States. While focus is on Mexico, the ultimate goal is for students to gain a broader understanding of the constructed nature of identity, the process of nation-building, and the ways in which power and inequality shape the world we observe today. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 171C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement. Osvaldo Sandoval Leon teaches Spanish in the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. His research focuses on contemporary Latin American literature and cultural studies, including trans-Atlantic theater and performance studies in the Southern Cone and Spain."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 116	China in Relation:Dao/Mao/Now	"[China in Relation, From Dao to Mao to Now] Students explore the creative forms and patterns—expressed in philosophy, poetry, fiction, painting, cartoon, film, and more—through which Chinese people have imagined and reimagined their connections to the cosmos, one another, and the world. Students begin by examining the role of the foundational but conflicting belief systems of Confucianism, Buddhism, and Daoism in pre-modern Chinese society. With the past in mind, students then turn to how various individuals and groups have used stories to control and contest the identity and direction of China as a modern nation. Students are asked to think about their own cultural assumptions, as well as their own connections to China—a task of crucial importance given China’s rising influence on global economics, politics, and the environment. This FSEM also introduces college-level standards of critical reading, written composition, oral presentation, and research methodology. Assignments—from short response papers to a final research project on your own chosen topic—aim for step-by-step enhancement of the thinking and expressive skills that will support you at Hudson and beyond.Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for CORE 165C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement. John A. Crespi teaches in Hudson’s Department of East Asian Languages and Literatures. His research interests center upon Chinese literature and culture, with particular focus on modern poetry and the history of the Chinese cartoon."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 117	Senegal	"Senegal is at once a vibrant location, where young urban artists have effected real political change, and an impoverished country, where neocolonialism continues to debilitate the economy and harm marginalized communities. Students grapple with the paradoxes of this postcolonial African nation. Through engagement with both scholarly texts and works of cultural production, including novels and films, light is shed on the lived experiences of Senegalese citizens both in Senegal and the diaspora. Students study the history and present of major phenomena that shape Senegalese lives, including the rise of Islam, French colonialism, women’s liberation, and increasing migration and homophobia in the twenty-first-century. The objectives are to unpack how Senegalese people of various identities are positioned in the world, to understand the constructed nature and fluidity of intersecting identities, and to encounter the ways in which individuals and communities creatively express themselves. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 147C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 118	The Middle East	"A multi-disciplinary introduction both to the region conventionally referred to as the Middle East, and also to the academic discipline of Middle Eastern Studies. In other words, it is a study of the people, religion, history, and culture of the region, and also about the politics of studying that region. One of the presuppositions is that a careful, rigorous, and critical study of cultural studies can help one understand one’s own assumptions, presuppositions, etc. Among the topics students examine are the multiple interpretations of religion, including sects within Islam, that exist in the region; a variety of cultural practices and various languages; and the effect of imperialism and colonialism on the area. Readings include what current native commentators are saying on cultural, economic, and social debates.Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 183C and satisfy the Communities & Identities core requirement."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 119	California	"Examines the fabric of California’s syncretic cultures in historical, geographic, sociologic, artistic, racial, literary, political, and economic contexts. The diverse settlement patterns, environmental and economic challenge/opportunity, explosion of art forms, and continuous creation of new communities often foreshadowed trends of the entire nation. Readings explore major themes and issues of California history, while literary and personal narratives provide insight into social and political realities, including the struggles of successive waves of immigrants to interact with the established populations. Artistic and architectural expressions that document cultural phenomena offer tangible examples of the creative forces that shaped Californian intellectual and physical communities. Sociological case studies as well as economic, political, and environmental reporting assist students to understand the challenges, failures, and victories of the composite California culture. Underlying all of this is a continuous study of the variegated geography of California, which has both offered and required substantial human choices. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for CORE 172C and satisfy the Communities and Identities core requirement."		3		Communities & Identities		
FSEM 120	Caribbean Ecol/Envir Concerns	"[Caribbean Ecology and Environmental Concerns] Caribbean environmental issues and concerns are usually overshadowed by the images of sand, sea, and sun. A unique set of physical environments, cultures, and languages influence each island in the region and reflects a strong connection between the aforementioned characteristics. This course is designed to allow students to understand “what is the Caribbean and what are the environmental issues that face these jewels of the Caribbean Sea?” Students begin by examining the historical context of the Caribbean, and then proceed by understanding the geographical and ecological context of the region. Students then explore the major environmental and social problems that threaten Caribbean societies. Class lectures, supplemented by discussions, and some film presentations will be the pedagogical approach taken. In addition to a research project, writing assignments, reflection papers, and two exams, are used to assess students’ overall grade. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 154S and satisfy the Scientific Perspectives core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 121	Critical Hlth:Parasite&Society	"[Critical Health Issues: Parasite and Society] Science is based primarily on an empirical approach to gathering information—an approach that relies on systematic observation. Students use the topic of parasite biology to deepen their understanding of the scientific process and how the scientific process applies to broader issues facing human health. Students start with the big picture of common parasites and their effect on human and societal development. Through these students make important connections between parasites, how it applies to their own life and power and limitations of sciences. The writing assignments provide critical thinking skills and a mechanism to acquire new knowledge. Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy the Scientific Perspectives core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 122	Talking Climate	"Our changing climate is one of the biggest challenges facing society today. Dire predictions of extreme weather events and other calamities are frequently in the headlines and are expected to get worse as the planet warms further. Scientists have been sounding the alarm about this for decades and yet, so far, we have failed to make substantive progress towards sustainable systems for energy, transportation or food production. The central question of this course is: “Why do we find it so difficult to take collective action on this problem?” Students learn the science governing Earth’s climate, the ways in which humans are changing the atmosphere, and what scientists predict for the future of our planet. Students examine the process by which the scientific community reaches consensus and reports recommendations to the public and look at historical examples of successful international agreements. Finally, students consider how public perception is shaped by the language we use when talking about a problem. The course draws heavily upon materials from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (the IPCC) as well as from the news and popular media. Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 123	Critical Health Issues: Cancer	"Students focus on understanding the cell and molecular changes that lead to human cancer. Students address the following questions: What is cancer? What causes cancer? How does cancer progress? What are the current cancer treatment strategies? What novel and future treatment strategies are being developed? Students are provided knowledge of the basic principles of the molecular and cellular biology of cancer cells. Furthermore, students are enabled to think about how scientists learn more about cancer, how they analyze and report their findings, and how our understanding of cancer influences our view of many important societal issues. In addition to lectures and class discussions, students perform a genomic instability lab using two cancer lines, HeLa (cervical cancer cell line) and HCT116 (colon cancer cell line). Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 177S and satisfy the Scientific Perspectives core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 124	Conserving Nature	"Natural resources are things of worth that were not made by humans and include forests, streams, soils, and wild animals. Collectively, we call these things Nature. Students explore the natural environment of Upstate New York and the scientific and ethical basis for conserving nature. Students focus on deer overpopulation and exotic species as important regional topics in conservation. The course includes a series of local field trips to visit sites of geological, biological, and historical importance. Students engage in a hands-on assessment of biodiversity. The aim of this course is to better understand the place in which we live and establish a relationship with nature here. Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy the Scientific Perspectives on the World core requirement. Timothy McCay is an ecologist who studies invasive species in forests of the Northeast. His current research with Hudson students focuses on “jumping worms” in the Adirondack Mountains."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 125	Bias in Humans & Machines	"Hudson University ranks among the top 20 liberal arts colleges according to the U.S. News and World Report, or more specifically, according to their proprietary algorithm. Algorithms are everywhere: populating your news feed, auto-predicting your messages, and determining your student aid package. But how do we know when algorithms are fair, and what happens when they’re not? Students explore various cognitive biases and how we (intentionally or unintentionally) build our biases into our technology. Students examine the sources of bias, the hallmarks of biased systems, and some tools that might help us mitigate bias.Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 126	"The Biology of Women: Sex, Gender, Reproduction and Disease"	"A basic understanding of the biological differences between males and females, and the implications of these findings is essential in today’s world that contains both modern technologies, a growing awareness of gender fluidities and, in some circles, steadfast gender-based stereotypes. Students investigate the historical and environmental construction of gender, the biological aspects of sex, the unique characteristics of female anatomy and reproduction, and the effect of sexually transmitted diseases and cancer on female health. Through laboratory activities and written, oral, and visual presentations students explore the scientific methods used to acquire our current understanding of hormonal signaling, genetic inheritance, microbial pathogenesis, and cell biology that underlie these topics. Social and ethical issues, and inequities that exist and are raised by the biological differences between males and females are also discussed, including hormonal therapy, in vitro fertilization, prenatal genetic testing, female genital mutilation, and the history of the pill. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 172S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 127	"Molecules, Energy and Sustainability"	"Abundant energy enables our modern civilization and way of life. Humans rely on energy to heat our homes, power electronics, propel our cars, and provide the food and water we consume. Yet this abundance comes at a cost, promoting economic disparity, damaging our environment, and causing anthropogenic climate change. Students focus on the fundamental science behind emerging technologies for energy production and storage as well as the history of energy production. Students develop a rigorous understanding of the role of CO2 in the climate system, and explore societal impacts and inequalities associated with both energy production and climate change. Finally, students learn the role of collective action in addressing the need for sustainable energy sources.Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 102S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 128	"Stem Cells, Gene Therapy, and Bionics: The Making and Remaking of the Human Body"	"Biotechnology grants us an increasing ability to control and alter aspects of our biological selves. We are on the verge of a number of therapeutic breakthroughs that could radically change regenerative medicine, but the same technologies can easily push us into ethically challenging territory. Students explore both the science that underlies some of these revolutions in biotechnology as well as the implications of our ability to alter fundamental aspects of our biology. Students examine science fiction as well as cutting edge scientific articles as we consider both the process of doing science in this field and the intersection between science and society. There is some hands-on laboratory exercises as well as short- and long-form writing to help students understand how to approach these topics. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 168S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 129	Poisons	"Students explore some of the many ways that humans, across different times and places, have identified and used poisons for good and evil. A broad survey of animal venoms, heavy metals, polychlorinated biphenyls, pesticides, and chemical warfare agents emphasize the history, toxicology, and modes of action of these ubiquitous compounds. Special attention is given to chemical carcinogenesis, the mechanisms by which certain compounds cause cancer, and chemotherapeutic strategies for curing the resulting diseases. Hands-on laboratory experiences include the synthesis of an antidote for thallium poisoning. Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 130	Energy and Sustainability	"Our current use of energy is unsustainable. Fossil fuels, which were deposited on Earth over hundreds of millions of years, will largely be exhausted over the course of just a few hundred years. Global climate change makes our situation even more unsustainable—we need to stop using fossil fuels long before they run out if we want to avoid catastrophic environmental change. This course takes a quantitative approach to learning about our current energy use, so that students can understand how our personal choices and lifestyles affect energy use. Please note that some of the assignments will require mathematics at the pre-calculus level. We also discuss how we might meet our energy needs in the future through renewable resources: what technologies are available now, what are their costs, and how much energy can they provide. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for CORE 101S and satisfy their Scientific Perspectives core requirement. Patrick Crotty is a theoretical physicist and uses techniques from physics, mathematics, and engineering to study the dynamics of neural networks. He also has longstanding extracurricular interests in history, sociology, and geography, in particular the factors (including resource usage/depletion) that influence the rise and fall of civilizations."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 131	The Science of Music	"What is music? How do natural raw sounds become a musical phenomenon? Why are some combinations of sounds more pleasant than others? The answers to these questions are tightly related to the concepts of matter, energy, time and space. Where there is music, there is sound; and where there is sound, there is physics. This course is an exploration of the underlying principles of musical phenomena, including acoustics of musical instruments, the engineering behind music technology, and the perception of sound. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 180S and satisfy the Scientific Perspectives core requirement. Ryan Chase is an Emmy-nominated composer whose work is regularly heard on PBS and NPR affiliates. Accolades for his work include the Leonard Bernstein Fellowship from Tanglewood, the Charles Ives Fellowship from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and multiple awards from ASCAP and BMI."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 132	Sports & Scientific Method	"In today’s world of sports, how is knowledge obtained? On what principles are strategy determined, personnel decisions made, and honors awarded? The advent of computers and the availability of large statistical databases have moved the source of knowledge away from conventional wisdom to more scientific and testable ideas. Questions of strategy and team decisions can now be addressed in an empirical fashion, causing a major impact in sports. Behind this revolution lies the scientific method of inquiry, including the notion of falsifiability and the relationship between theory and observation. This course explores these ideas using examples in sports to illustrate more general scientific concepts. Students explore the impact of empirical knowledge on the games themselves, and how it has caused changes in strategies and team decisions. Finally, the students ask their own sports questions and answer them in a scientific fashion. NOTE: Class discussions will often touch on sports topics, particularly in baseball and basketball, so some prior knowledge about the basics of both sports and the statistics that are used is helpful. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 100S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 133	Electrons & Our Civilization	"Since the early civilizations, electric charges have inspired human minds. However, it was only after the nineteenth century that major discoveries were made, including the realization that flowing charges were electrons. Since then, it has been humanity’s quest to tame electrons for their own good. With electrons, humans created light without fire, were able to send long-distance messages, and developed computing devices. Within a span of about two hundred years after the first modern inventions associated with electrons, human civilization has completely transformed. Through this course, structured around lectures, discussions, demonstrations, films, readings, and research assignments, students learn about the human endeavor to understand electrons and how that understanding has shaped our civilization. Students learn about the process of scientific discoveries, the development of electronics as we know it, and the historical timeline of major discoveries that revolutionized our civilization. Students also develop insight into the impact of these discoveries on our society, lifestyle, health, finance, national security, and sustainability.Students who successfully complete this seminar satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 134	Dangerous Earth	"Some researchers argue that there’s no such thing as “natural disasters,” only disasters that result from the intersection of natural hazards with vulnerable systems. Students examine major natural hazards like earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, sea level rise, and impacts from space, and consider what happens when they intersect with vulnerable human systems like cities, towns, and communities. Students explore the science of these hazards through hands-on study of the physical processes that cause them and explore the human impacts through the stories of those who have been most affected by them. Where do these hazards occur and why at those locations? What control do we have over these hazards? Why are some communities disproportionately impacted by natural hazards, and what mitigation efforts should be prioritized? How can we leverage effective science communication to help prevent natural hazards from becoming disasters, and prevent disasters from becoming catastrophes?Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 129S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement. Alison Koleszar is a geologist who studies why some volcanoes explode while other volcanoes only ooze. Alison’s research locations have included volcanoes in the Cascades Range and in the Galapagos Islands, and her current research project with Hudson students is investigating the explosive potential (and the risk of a hazard becoming a disaster) at Augustine Volcano, Alaska."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 135	Molecules that Rock Your World: Medicinal	"One of the great applications of chemistry and biology is the treatment of disease. Students consider the scientific and societal issues surrounding medicinal molecules that shape our world. Through readings, discussions, writing projects, and some hands-on modeling students explore a series of pharmaceuticals, from small molecules like birth control to more complex biological drugs like insulin and mRNA vaccines. Students also consider the scientific and social processes through which medications are developed in the lab, tested in clinical trials, and approved by the FDA. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 158S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 136	Privacy	"What is privacy? Why does privacy matter? Is privacy dead? Students examine these and other questions about privacy from social, legal, and technical perspectives. Students explore the history of privacy in the United States from the 1800s to the present, discussing how changing norms and technologies have influenced privacy across society. Then they focus on how the Internet, computing systems, and connected devices have enabled novel privacy vulnerabilities and protections. Finally, students learn how computer scientists study privacy and practice writing about privacy across genres. Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 137	"Molecules that Rock Your World: Energy, Food, War, and Population Expansion"	"What is privacy? Why does privacy matter? Is privacy dead? Students examine these and other questions about privacy from social, legal, and technical perspectives. Students explore the history of privacy in the United States from the 1800s to the present, discussing how changing norms and technologies have influenced privacy across society. Then they focus on how the Internet, computing systems, and connected devices have enabled novel privacy vulnerabilities and protections. Finally, students learn how computer scientists study privacy and practice writing about privacy across genres. Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 138	The Science and Practice of Yoga	"Yoga has been practiced for millenia to enhance spiritual awareness and deep observation of the self. The benefits of yoga are not only spiritual but also have strong physiological benefits.Students learn the science, history, and philosophy of yoga through lectures and our own practice. Students focus their study on the physiological response of the body to intentional movement and breathwork including concentration, sleep, and mindfulness. Classwork is grounded in the scientific literature and explores what yoga does, and does not, do for the body and mind. Students explore the impacts of yoga with their own practice both in and out of the classroom. Note: Weekly attendance at a yoga class outside of class times is required throughout the semester (many taught on campus). No previous experience with yoga or flexibility is necessary to fully participate in the course. Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 139	The Science of Relationships	"Close relationships are central to our lives; friends, parents, siblings, romantic partners, acquaintances, and coworkers have an enormous influence on one’s thoughts, feelings, and behavior. The purpose of this seminar is to understand the processes that regulate human relationships using a scientific perspective. Coursework includes an overview of social psychology theories of relationships research and an exploration of the current literature. Students are exposed to a variety of research methods and have the opportunity to design their own experiment about relationships. Topics include attraction, intimacy, attachment, friendship, interdependence, communication, dissolution and loss, love, and maintaining relationships. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 112S and satisfy the Scientific Perspectives core requirement. How do close relationships bring out the best in us?"		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 140	Mind & Brain in Meditation	"Meditation, zazen, ch’an, dhyana: These are all words for the ancient practice of mindful sitting. This simple practice has endured for millennia, and has thrived in a wide variety of cultures, including, most recently, the West. To the Western mind, this practice of “doing nothing” is full of paradox. Students explore the practice, both academically and experientially. Students study the psychological effects on concentration, memory, consciousness, and psychological well-being. Students seek explanations from research on mind, brain, and behavior, for how “doing nothing” can have such profound effects. Students sit regularly in meditation, and we use ourselves as subjects of our own research on the effects of meditation. Students gain a better understanding of psychology, scientific research, and meditation, and no previous experience with any of these is necessary to fully participate in the course. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 145S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 141	Willpower: Sci of Self-Control	"Willpower allows people to delay gratification, resist temptations, and reach challenging long-term goals. Our ability to control our will influences nearly every area of our lives. This course is designed to be a unique opportunity to engage in this fascinating topic from a scientific perspective. Students begin by sharing their own experiences with trying to exert willpower. Students then explore psychological theories of self-control and then read the scientific research that supports and extends these theories. As a way of deepening understanding of this literature and developing our writing skills, students keep a journal as they read. In addition, students actually do some of this science. Together, we attempt to replicate and extend a study from the literature. Doing so will engage students in every stage of the scientific process and show, first hand, how research works.Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 149S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 142	Hi(dden)story of Mathematics	"Students discuss the hidden history of mathematics: from the ancient past, admiring the way different civilizations approached mathematics, and the way they applied it, to more recent events. The class highlights mathematical contributions of underrepresented mathematicians and attempts to tear down the myth that western civilization is solely responsible for technological advances. The course requires both a willingness to discuss and engage with the history of mathematics and the desire to learn, and apply, actual mathematics. Students are expected to attend three film screenings throughout the semester. Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement. Gabriel Sosa Castillo was born in Barranquilla, Colombia. His interest in Mathematics was cemented during high school while participating in International Mathematical Olympiads. His research interests are Computational and Combinatorial Commutative Algebra, Graph Theory and Mathematical Education. He enjoys playing board games, karaoke, collecting comic books, spending time with his partner and petting his five cats."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 143	"Natural Disasters: Science, Media and Movies"	"Events like earthquakes, volcanoes, tsunamis, fires, and hurricanes can be devastating to human societies - yet they are natural processes that often play an important role in earth systems. In this course, students examine the processes that drive these events, the ways they intersect with human societies, and steps we can take to mitigate their damage. They also explore how the ways we represent these processes in the media and in films (including both documentaries and movies) can impact our view of the disasters and can help or hinder preparedness. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 176S and satisfy the Scientific Perspective core requirement. Aubreya Adams is a geologist specializing in seismology. She uses records of earthquake waves to image the insides of the Earth - looking at the deep processes driving plate tectonics, earthquakes, and volcanic eruptions. Her research has covered many geographic locations and earth systems, but her two greatest focus areas are the East African Rift System and the Alaskan Subduction Zone."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 144	Statistics in Real Life	"Data are omnipresent in our daily life, ranging from weather data to epidemic curves to public policy polls. How do scientists gather, analyze, and interpret data? This course delivers the core principles of statistical analysis that address this exact question. Topics include: experimental design; descriptive statistics; normal and sampling distributions; confidence intervals and hypothesis testing; correlation and regression; and goodness of fit. Every student creates their own project which seeks to answer a real-life question using methods learned during the course. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for CORE 143S and satisfy the Scientific Perspectives core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
FSEM 145	Gender and Social Justice	"In this course, we will explore gender, as it is understood and enacted by different people in various historical moments, geographical locations, and cultural contexts, focusing particularly on the way gender intersects with race, ethnicity, class, religion, sexuality, ability, and other markers of identity. We will think critically about oppression, activism, social change, and common assumptions about the world and people around us. One of our main goals in this course is to explore both the forces that feed into inequality and discrimination, and ways to resist, challenge, and overcome those forces. We will ask questions about bodies, work, families, identity, politics, medicine, history, and the media; our inquiries will largely be based in the United States, but we will also think about women’s movements and situations around the world. We will develop the vocabulary and tools to speak and think critically about oppression, patriarchy, and some of the issues that face us as both females and males today. This course will require sensitivity, respect, and substantial work in the form of reading, writing, and above all thinking. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for WMST 202 and fulfill the Global Engagement requirement. Mary Simonson’s research interests include film music, American cinema and entertainment in the first half of the twentieth century, and filmed dance. Her teaching and scholarship focus on representations and performances of gender and sexuality on the stage and the screen."		3		Global Engagements		
FSEM 147	Literary Analysis: Much Ado about Not[h]ing	"Focused on what's involved in reading and writing well about things classified as literature--novels, short stories, poems, plays. An automatic response to such things is to ask what they mean, to interpret them. Coursework promotes the value of postponing the impulse to interpret in favor of paying close attention to the thing itself, noting all its parts, even things that seem irrelevant or confusing. Students begin with reading and then rereading Agatha Christie's classic detective novel, The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. What can we learn from Christie's account of how Hercule Poirot solves the crime? From there, students consider a range of literary texts including novels (e.g., Henry James's ghost story/psychological thriller The Turn of the Screw and E. L. Doctorow's work of historical fiction Ragtime), poems (e.g., William Blake's Songs of Innocence and Experience and Michael Ondaatje's The Collected Works Billy the Kid), and, of course, the play by Shakespeare from which this course derives its name, Much Ado about Nothing. These texts have been chosen to offer students a wide range of topics on which they can focus to become better readers and writers and to practice some of the techniques of college-level research. One or more additional works will be added in consultation with the students who enroll in the course. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for ENGL 206 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Margaret Maurer teaches courses in Shakespeare and his contemporaries, with an emphasis on poetry; but try not to hold that against her. She also likes detective stories, especially when the authors of them play fair. (She's not entirely convinced that Agatha Christie always plays fair.)"		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 148	Sex and the Global City	"The title of the class comes from the popular television series Sex and the City, in which four professional women discover the freedoms and opportunities New York City offers. The series, starring Sarah Jessica Parker as the writer, illuminates the sexually liberating nature of New York where Parker and her girlfriends are also empowered to have good careers, travel, and consume all that the city has to offer. Other series that may share similar narrative structures are Girls and Keeping Up with the Kardashians. Students explore some of the hidden and glossed over aspects of such depictions of global cities relating to questions of race, gender, sexuality, migration, labor and class. Students consider sex in its multiple iterations—as gender, motherhood, sexual violence, masculinities, and sexualities. Students also explore what we mean by global cities. How do they enable experimentation with identities and sexualities, allowing for the movement and meeting of people, but also stratify, hierarchize, and separate people from one another?Students also explore how the texts under consideration discuss questions of sex, globalization and urbanization through experiments with form. Texts include: Virginia Woolf, Mrs. Dalloway; Jamaica Kincaid, A Small Place; Michelle Cliff, No Telephone to Heaven; Mohsin Hamid, The Reluctant Fundamentalist; Gaspar de Alba, Desert Blood: the Juarez Murders; Maquilapolis, Life and Debt; and Paris is Burning. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for ENGL 208 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 149	Religion & Contemporary World	"Explores religion's complicated role in our contemporary world. Focusing on Islam, Hinduism, and Christianity, students wrestle with pressing questions about how religion intersects with politics, ethics, and the personal search for meaning in our lives. For example, is religion prone to violence? Is secular modernity a blessing or a curse? What's the purpose of living and dying? In our search to answer these questions, students encounter a diverse range of fascinating sources, including academic scholarship on religion, documentary films, and religious manifestos by Gandhi and Osama bin Laden. This seminar challenges students, whether you're religious or non-religious, to see our world through new perspectives. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for RELG 102 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Megan Brankley Abbas studies and teaches about the modern history of Islam, especially in Indonesia. She has long been fascinated with the relationship among religion, politics, and morality and looks forward to sharing this interest with incoming first years!"		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 150	Literature of Addiction and Recovery	"Explores addiction and recovery through fiction, poetry, memoir, film, and psychological theory. Coursework is designed to improve student’s ability to analyze complex texts and to situate them within their cultural, political, and historical contexts."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 151	Elementary Arabic I	"An introduction to the Arabic language course designed to give the students a basic foundation at the elementary level of Arabic in reading, writing, speaking and listening to Modern Standard Arabic (MSA). Students also gain some exposure to the Egyptian Spoken Arabic (ESA), which is a widely understood dialect throughout the Arab world. Students learn the phonology and script of both MSA and ESA (where it is appropriate), their basic vocabulary and fundamental structures. Basic grammar is taught through audio-visual media and drills in conjunction with the formal exercises in the textbook. Students also practice simple interactive communicative tasks involving teacher-student conversations and simple conversations of students among themselves. Because exposing students to the Arab culture is an important element of the course, many activities are supplemented with basic information on interpersonal transactions and cultural practices. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for ARAB 121 and satisfy one half of the Human Thought and Expression area of inquiry requirement. Nady Abdal-Ghaffar, the Coordinator of the Arabic Language program, is trained in Teaching Arabic as a Second Language (TAFL). He was originally trained as a historian and worked as an archival researcher. His current research interests focus on the history of the Arabic language from the sixteenth century onward."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 152	The Jazz Age	"A reconsideration of what F. Scott Fitzgerald dubbed “the Jazz Age” in terms of the American inscription of race between the First World War and the Great Depression. Students read Langston Hughes with William Carlos Williams, Dorothy Parker with Dubose Heyward, Nella Larsen with F. Scott Fitzgerald, and read everyone in terms of the African American musics that were profoundly transforming the sound and feel of American life. And troubling the foundation of everything else is T.S. Eliot’s legendary critique of modern life, The Waste Land. At all times students will consider the relations among ways of reading and writing and thinking, among ways of representing our lives and ways of changing them. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for ENGL 205 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 153	Elementary Latin I	"A foreign language is more than just vocabulary; it’s a way of organizing and making sense of the complexity of the world. Latin is a remarkably regular and orderly language, and accordingly students learn the basics of Latin in a regular and orderly way. Learning Latin is highly doable and a lot of fun: it might be the first time that you come to really understand the words you are already speaking and the sentences you are composing. Through this study, you will not only gain access to a major language, which was, like English today, the common language of writers, scientists, and thinkers for centuries, but also acquire key skills to succeed as a student at Hudson: you will learn to think more clearly, write more precisely, understand English and other languages to a new depth, and develop your time management and study skills. Within a few weeks, moreover, you will be able to read selections from real Latin authors and gain the tools to access a whole world of history and culture. No prior knowledge of Latin is assumed. Latin is especially relevant for careers in medicine, law, politics, and creative and non-fiction writing. Taking this course will partially qualify you for any Extended Study courses in Italy that the Department of the Classics may offer in the future. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for LATN 121 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Daniel Tober teaches ancient history and Greek and Latin language and literature in the Department of the Classics. His research focuses on Greek historiography in particular in the Hellenistic period. Elementary Latin is one of his favorite courses to teach."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 154	Sports and Spectacles in Ancient Greece and Rome	"The Olympic Games, gladiators, chariot racing: the sports and spectacles of ancient Greece and Rome still loom large in the modern imagination. The summer and winter Olympic and Paralympic games, for example, are staged in major cities every four years, and NFL football players are routinely called “modern-day gladiators” and compete in annual Super Bowls designated by Roman Numerals. Why are we fascinated by ancient sports and spectacles? And why do people across the globe spend so much time playing, watching, and enjoying sports? Without a doubt, billions of eyes will be glued to television screens in November and December for the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar. To answer these questions, students explore how sports and spectacles were practiced, experienced, developed, and diffused in the Greco-Roman World, from the legendary foundation of the Olympic Games in 776 BCE to the violent spectacles of the Roman Empire. Students also compare the role of sports in Classical Antiquity to the position they now occupy in contemporary society, with special focus on the revival of the Olympic Games in 1896 and the rise of televised team sports in the 20th century. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for CLAS 223 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 155	Intro Philosophical Problems	"Everyone faces fundamental questions about what to believe, how to act, what to value, and who to care for. Philosophy focuses explicitly on these and related questions, using reason and argumentation to assess a wide range of possible responses. Students may leave this course with fewer answers and more questions than they had when they entered, but they will definitely gain new resources for thinking deeply about the central question that Socrates posed: ‘What kind of life is best for a human being?’ Some of the particular issues we will xplored are: What is justice, and what makes it valuable? What should I do if, through no fault of my own, I find myself part of an unjust institution? Does it even make sense to talk about what I should do, since science seems to show that my behavior is largely or even completely determined by factors outside my control? Behind all these issues lie questions about the self: What makes me me – is it my beliefs and personality, my biology, or something else? To stimulate our reflection, students read writings by Plato, John Stuart Mill, Martin Luther King, Jr., Iris Marion Young, and others. Class meetings are devoted mostly to discussion. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for PHIL 101 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Ed Witherspoon has been teaching philosophy at Hudson for more than twenty years. His teaching interests include logic, history of modern philosophy, and philosophy and the social sciences. Themes of his recent writings include our knowledge of each other’s minds and connections between the analytic and continental philosophical traditions."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 156	Environmental Ethics	"An introduction to the field of environmental ethics. Topics discussed include: what is the moral status of non-human animals, and do they possess rights? How do we balance the interests of humans and other animals when they conflict? Why should we be concerned with the extinction of species and loss of ecosystems - is it only a matter of human interests? And should we try to bring back extinct species if genetic technologies make this possible? Finally, we'll look at our moral obligations with respect to climate change and sustainability. Do we have an obligation to reduce our personal carbon emissions if it makes no real difference to climate change? What are the climate obligations of governments and corporations? Should we be having fewer children to reduce our environmental impacts? And is it possible to lead a flourishing human life, while reducing our consumption, to achieve a more sustainable society? Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for ENST/PHIL 202 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 157	Existentialism	"""What is it to be human? How should we live? What difference does it make whether God exists? Students confront these fundamental questions in investigation of the philosophical movement known as Existentialism. Existentialism came of age in 1940s Paris with the work of Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, and Albert Camus, but its roots extend at least to Pascal, Dostoevsky, Nietzsche and Kierkegaard. While they insist on rigor, these authors are no friends of abstraction: for them, philosophy must illuminate our actual, concrete, everyday lives. Their goal is always to challenge readers to confront these questions for themselves, a challenge that students seek to meet – individually and collectively. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive course credit for PHIL 216 and satisfy one half of the Human Thought and Expression area of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 158	"The World's Religions - Sex, Death, and Evil"	"How do sex, death, and evil shape what it means to be human and to live in the world? Students are introduced to ideas, texts, rituals, and stories created by Buddhists, Christians, Hindus, Jews and Muslims. We shall focus on how they open up and debate the role of sex, death, and evil in human life. The only prerequisite for this course is a genuine curiosity to learn about what motivates people whose minds work differently from our own. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for RELG 101 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 159	"Gender, Sexuality, and Race in Hollywood"	"Explores the construction and performance of gender, sexuality, and race in and through American film, television, and other media. Using a variety of critical approaches, students examine the various ways in which gender, sexual, and racial identities are reproduced and/or questioned onscreen over the course of the twentieth- and twenty-first centuries. In addition to close examinations of onscreen performances, students explore the ways in which the spectator’s gender, sexuality, and race are implicated in viewing: how do we as viewers enact our identities as we watch and listen? Underlying all of our discussions will be the question of what it means to perform gender, sexuality, and race, and how such performances are naturalized (or purposefully de-naturalized). Coursework consists of a combination of lectures and discussions based on course readings and close analysis of films and other media; students acquire the language and interpretive skills necessary to closely analyze the form and content of media. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for FMST 350 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Mary Simonson teaches courses on media and music, American media, performance studies, and feminist theory and practice, and is one of the faculty directors of Brown Commons at Hudson. Her research focuses on performance across media in the nineteenth and first half of the twentieth centuries, particularly in American film, music, and culture."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 159L	Required Film Screening			0				
FSEM 160	Eco-Art	"Ecological art is a contemporary social arts practice that brings living things into relationship with one another, bioremediates ecologies, and/or actively considers the resources, systems, and habitats for multiple species, in a range of different sites (large and small, rural and urban). Students practice ongoing creative thinking and problem solving, as well as encounter the challenges of visual form and expression, and the critical methods tied to 'eco-art,' largely through the ecologies specific to central New York. Students become familiar with contemporary and historical artistic practices and theoretical frameworks in the field, as they create a series of eco-art projects using a variety of mediums and materials that include both representational media and living relationships. Students work in the studio of the art building as well as a living ""Food Forest Studio"" in the village of Hamilton. In the spirit of the liberal arts, the creative processes central to the course are relevant to a range of other disciplines as well. Attendance at our regularly scheduled ARTS Lecture Series is required. Material cost is $50–$100. This course serves as a prerequisite for all 200 level studio courses. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for ARTS 100 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 161	Major British Writers	"Introduce students to the major works of English literature, prepares students in the techniques of literary analysis, offers a survey of British poetic traditions from the Anglo-Saxon period through the 20th Century, and a sense of the history of poetic authority, language, and endeavor. The course involves readings, discussion, and writing. Though Major British Writers is the gateway course to the English major, required of all majors and intended to be taken in the first or second year, it is not simply a course for potential English majors but for anyone who would like the opportunity to explore major works by major authors such as Geoffrey Chaucer, William Shakespeare, Alexander Pope, William Blake, William Wordsworth, Lord Byron, and Robert Browning. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for ENGL 200 and satisfy one half of the Human Thought and Expression area of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 162	Introduction to Architecture	"Students collectively explore how sites, structures, and places are shaped and how they resonate within our experience and in cultures, broadly considered. Students use the campus as a laboratory within their studies for the first half of the course, and then turn to the study of select historical monuments from around the globe, such as the Katsura Imperial Garden in Kyoto, St. Peter’s in Rome, the Mosque in Cordoba, and the National Mall in Washington D.C. It is not a design course, per se, but one that will make you more alert to architecture’s complexities and more articulate regarding its human significance. The course is designed for all students wishing to empower their everyday experience of the built environment as well as those students contemplating a possible career in architecture. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for ARTS 105 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Robert McVaugh studies art and architecture of the 19th and 20th centuries, with a particular research focus on the evolution of American Campus Architecture."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 163	Intro to Film and Media Studie	"From the films we watch to the personal profiles we maintain online, media saturates our lives. Lockdowns and quarantines brought on by the pandemic have made our experience of the world even more intensely mediated. Students focus on the workings and social effects of several mass media—film, television, and the internet. Students examine their unique histories, technological specificities, and their interactions with each other in the digital age. Students learn how to analyze media by paying attention to content as well as form/aesthetics. This course is discussion-driven and also has a mandatory weekly screening. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for FMST 200 and satisfy one half of the Human Thought and Expression area of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 163L	Intro to FMST - Film Screening	Students who take FSEM 163 are also required to participate in this weekly film screening.		0				
FSEM 164	Living Writers	"A signature program of Hudson University since 1980, Living Writers is a master class in how works of literature come to be. In this slightly abbreviated version of Engl. 360, students read stories, essays, poems, novels, and a play by some of the world’s most acclaimed writers, among them Imbolo Mbue, author of How Beautiful We Were. Students read and discuss each work with the professor before meeting each author in person. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for ENGL 360 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 164L	Living Writers Public Readings			0				
FSEM 165	Acting I: The Floating World	"Students will discover a country where there are no rules. Or if there are any rules, they are only there to be broken. Students will be asked to embrace these contradictions. This class will ask students to be prepared to hold two or more opposing ideas in the palms of their hands at the same time. This class will attempt to teach students that the only true way to expand your world is to inhabit an otherness beyond ourselves. There is one simple word for this: empathy. Students discover that the world is so much more than one story: we find in others the ongoing of ourselves. This FSEM, a Basic Acting class, is reassurance that not forgetting how to play is essential, that our knowledge of the world is the equivalent to the set of experiences that we have had, and that our communication is limited by the number of stories we know to tell. Students learn that storytelling and understanding are actually the same thing. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for THEA 254 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 166	Acting I: Being Here	"Reading, writing, theater viewing, and a variety of practical assignments aim to facilitate student’s understanding and appreciation of theater and to familiarize them with the discipline of acting. Focusing on correlations between mind, body, and brain, the series of exercises the students have to complete in this course aim to enhance self-awareness, attention, concentration and to cultivate students’ expressive, imaginative, creative, and communicative abilities. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for THEA 254 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Simona Giurgea, senior lecturer in the Department of Theater, studied theater at the Academy of Theatre, Film and Television in Bucharest, Romania, where she earned her MFA in Acting and started teaching in 1991. She worked in repertory theater from the age of eighteen. Her professional experience includes: acting, directing, set and costume design, coaching, movement instruction, musical theater, television, film and radio credits, national (Romania) and international workshops and tours in Italy, Belgium, Germany, and Egypt. In the United States, she taught both in graduate and undergraduate programs at the American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco, University of California at Riverside, California State University in Long Beach, Pomona College, and Hudson University. At Hudson University, since 2005, she teaches classes in acting and directing, supervises senior projects, and directs University Theater productions."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 167	Dante's Divine Comedy	"Descending first to the depths of Hell, then climbing upward to reach the summit of heavenly bliss, Dante’s Divine Comedy brings its readers on one of the most amazing journeys that any author has ever imagined. Beauty and ugliness, horror and sublimity, joy and regret—all are portrayed in this poem that simmers with rage (Dante wrote it in exile, betrayed by his friends and his country) even as it strives for redemption. Students follow Dante on his pilgrimage through the afterlife, unraveling intricacies, pondering age-old mysteries, and encountering the cast of sinners and saints, famous and obscure, that the poet’s art has made unforgettable. At every stage we shall discover extraordinary human feeling and a brilliant account of religion, politics, morality, and poetry. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for a 200-level CLAS course and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 168	Intro to Italian Cinema	"Introduces some masterpieces of Italian cinema from the origins to contemporary productions. Students watch some of the groundbreaking films by Italian directors such as Rossellini, Fellini, Antonioni, Pasolini, Benigni, and more. Students write two short papers and film responses throughout the semester to improve their skills in analyzing films and their knowledge of Italian culture. There is also one mid-term exam and one final exam. Students improve their knowledge of Italian culture and their critical skills through the analysis of the content and the form of major Italian films. At the end of this course, students are able to discuss films in their technical and aesthetic elements as well as their socio-political and cultural aspects within the context of Italian history. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for ITAL 224 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Monica Facchini teaches Italian and Film Studies at Hudson. Her courses aim to improve students' critical skills and analytical reading of different texts, both written and audio-visual. Her research interests include Italian literature, film studies, and cultural studies. She is currently working on a book project on representations of the Holocaust in Italian cinema."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 168L	Italian Cinema Film Screening			0				
FSEM 169	Elementary Italian I	"To learn a language is to have one more window from which to view the world. Elementary Italian I is an introduction to the Italian language and culture. Italian is renowned as the language of the arts, music, and opera. In the third millennium, at the crossroads of Mediterranean culture, Italy is quickly becoming a multicultural nation, with one of the top ten economies in the world. Activities that emphasize the four language skills of speaking, reading, writing and listening will help students obtain both communicative and cultural competency in Italian. Students who successfully complete this course receive credit for ITAL 121 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Dr. Franziska Merklin’s research focuses on literary translation and classical reception studies. Her publications include books on the Italian Humanist Iacopo Sannazaro and the German avant-garde poet Stefan George. She teaches both language and literature courses. Her classes incorporate many pedagogical tools, including film and music, and she believes in creating a friendly classroom atmosphere that encourages communication."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 170	The Experiment of Writing	"What is ""good writing""? Who gets to define what it is? Are you born with writing skills, or can you acquire them later? Students in this class explore all of these questions in relation to personal, public, and academic writing. Students explore different methods for reading and composing texts in a variety of ""rhetorical situations."" Weekly reading and writing assignments build on one another, culminating in a final research-driven project and presentation. Students gain flexible skills for reading, thinking, and discussing complex ideas with different audiences. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for WRIT 103 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Dr. LeMesurier is a rhetorical scholar who specializes in contemporary rhetorics of race, embodiment, and food. Students in her classes engage with multimodal and digital texts as creators and consumers in order to develop their writing voice and strategies."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 171	"Introduction to Philosophical Traditions of Africa, the Americas, and Asia"	"Students explore philosophy as it has been done across the world – in particular, in Africa, the Americas, and Asia. Students investigate rules for good living developed by Chinese thinkers like Confucius, reflect on the self with Hindu and Buddhist thinkers from South Asia, and tease out lessons about the nature of existence from some oral traditions of Africa and North America. Throughout the course, students engage with major thinkers and lines of thought in these traditions with three questions in mind: First, do cultural, linguistic, or geographical features affect a person’s or group’s philosophical views and methods? And if so, how? Second, what does philosophy across the different traditions have in common? Are there universal philosophical methods or topics? Third, what philosophical insights can we learn from these traditions – how can they help us better understand the world, other people, and ourselves? Students who successfully complete this seminar will satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 171X	Discov African Lit/FLAC-French			0				
FSEM 172	Academic Persuasions	"This course is especially designed for students who seek extra support for their writing. Students explore language as tied to identity and consider how they might wish to position themselves as writers in an academic context like Hudson. Students also learn about specific writing conventions that vary across three broad ""persuasions,"" or academic disciplines, within the liberal arts tradition: the humanities, the social sciences, and the natural sciences. Requirements include weekly readings and varied writing assignments. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for WRIT 110 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Jenn Lutman directs the Writing and Speaking Center and teaches rhetoric and composition. Her areas of specialization include writing pedagogy, style, and poetry."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 173	Public Sphere Rhetorics and Social Change	"Introduces the 2500-year-old field of rhetoric through the study of language as it has shaped the production of knowledge and the reproduction of power. It is particularly interested in the composition and circulation of private and public discourses in the work of social change. Students undertake a scaffolded, step-by-step set of written assignments that build toward and culminate in the presentation of an original research project on the ways rhetoric takes form in current public sphere discourses. Students develop facility with analytic habits of mind, discursive moves typical in academic research writing, and the construction of clear, complex, and logical arguments. Students employ intergroup dialogue as a means to integrate critical analysis and sustained dialogue through guided reflection and anti-bias consciousness raising. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for WRIT 110 and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement. Dr. Suzanne B. (b) Spring specializes in 19th-century women's epistolary rhetoric, particularly as it shaped the U.S. and trans-Atlantic abolitionist movement. She employs critical race, class, and queer lenses (often through intergroup dialogue) to her seminars in first-year writing, feminist rhetoric, comparative rhetoric, and digital narrative craft."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 174	Architecture in Conflict and Cataclysm	"Studies the impact of conflict and cataclysm on architectural heritage with an emphasis on Europe and America. The Russian invasion of Ukraine is endangering Ukrainian cultural heritage, with historic structures being targeted for destruction, and entire cities leveled. The April 2019 fire at Notre Dame cathedral in Paris generated a vigorous debate about how (and how fast) to respond to the loss of historic architectural heritage. Local stakeholders are working together with international agencies to assess and rebuild damaged heritage in Syria and Iraq. The 2004 reconstruction of the sixteenth-century Mostar Bridge aimed to heal the religious divisions of the War in Bosnia and Herzegovina. After the Second World War, inhabitants of Warsaw had to decide on which image of their city to revive in reconstruction activities. Students study these case studies and others, to consider the destruction, reconstruction, and preservation of architectural heritage. Students discuss religious iconoclasm, revolution, tactical destruction and cultural cleansing, monuments and memorialization, architectural reconstruction and “facadism,” looting/art theft, accident and natural disaster; the politics of representation will also figure prominently. What can we learn from these histories? How have the issues been theorized by practitioners? How do local communities participate? What is the future of historic preservation? Assignments include short essays, a research project, and collaborative presentations, as well as a class trip to Lower Manhattan to visit the 9/11 Memorial. Students are also introduced to research fundamentals. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for a 200-level ARTS course and satisfy one half of the Human Thought and Expression area of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 175	Emperors and Empire: The Roman Imperium	"For more than a thousand years, the idea of the Roman Empire shaped the destiny of peoples. Its influence extended across Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East, and one can make the case that it persists still, affecting our deepest notions about international relations and the nature of government. Students investigate the origin and development of Roman imperial ideology. Where did it come from? What were its defining elements? How did it adapt to changing circumstances? Why has it endured? Students examine not only deep political structures but also unforgettable individuals—famous emperors who changed the course of history (Augustus, Constantine, Justinian, Charlemagne, Frederick II) and brilliant writers who critiqued or celebrated what empire entailed (Vergil, Tacitus, Suetonius, Dante, and others). Students with an interest in fields such as history, literature, political science, religion, and classics will find much here to excite their curiosity. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for a 200-level CLAS course and satisfy one half of the human thought and expression areas of inquiry requirement."		3			Human Thought and Expression	
FSEM 177	Geology Outdoors	"Central New York has changed dramatically throughout geologic time. A billion years ago, the area around Hudson was underneath a mountain belt the size of the Himalayas; 400 million years ago, the area was in the tropics and covered by a shallow sea. And as recently as 20,000 years ago, an ice sheet a mile thick covered Hamilton. How can we possibly know these things? The evidence is actually in the landscape all around us; we just need to learn how to read the clues left behind. And what better way to learn about these events than to be outside! This unique field-based seminar is designed to use the area around Hudson as a natural laboratory to study the geologic history of the region. The highlight of the course will be Monday afternoon field trips to local areas where students learn first-hand how to observe and interpret evidence for these and other dramatic geologic changes. Therefore, if you enroll in this seminar, you should plan to keep your Monday afternoons free from 1:20 to 5:00 PM. Evaluation will be based on semi-weekly writing assignments and a final research project on the geologic history of New York. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for a 100-level GEOL course and satisfy one half of the Natural Sciences & Mathematics area of inquiry requirement."		3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
FSEM 177L	Geology Outdoors Fieldtrips	"Required field trip component to FSEM 177, Geology Outdoors."		1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
FSEM 178	Introduction to Environmental Geography	"Designed to provide students with a general understanding of the processes and spatial distribution of the Earth's primary physical systems. Emphasis is divided into three areas: the energy – atmosphere system; water weather and climate systems; and the earth – atmosphere interface. Students are introduced to the basic physical processes and interactions that operate within each of these categories, with a special focus on the ways in which these factors relate to contemporary environmental problems. FSEM 184 serves as an excellent starting point for the wide variety of environmental courses offered at Hudson. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for GEOG 231 and satisfy one half of the Natural Sciences and Mathematics area of inquiry requirement. Peter Scull is a physical geographer interested in using geospatial tools (geographic information systems and remote sensing) to study environmental change."		3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
FSEM 179	"Black Girls, Creativity, and Justice"	"From BET's Black Girls Rock to World Champion and Olympic Gold Medalist Simone Biles and Darnella Frazier's sudden yet tragic catapultion into the limelight, Black girls are shaping every aspect of national and global culture. Students learn about Black girls’ lives, the ways they innovate culture, and imagine more just worlds for all of us. Students also learn why studying Black girlhood can be an important lens through which to understand gender, race, and justice in wider contexts. Participants in Black Girls, Creativity, and Justice explore and analyze a wide range of sources including research, film, music, and reports to thoughtfully respond to the following question: How do Black girls’ lived experiences and navigation of systems of power expand personal and social understandings of justice and creativity? Course material invites curiosity, critical analysis, and a willingness to unpack and unlearn approaches used to see Black girls and what (in)justice looks like. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for a 200-level WMST course and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 180	"Brewing Society: The History, Culture, and Economics of Beer"	"Originating contemporaneously with the agricultural transition during the Neolithic Revolution in Sumeria, alcoholic beverages produced from fermented grains have been ubiquitous throughout human history. Brewing practices were refined in medieval European monasteries and advanced to a science during the Scientific and Industrial Revolutions. Commercialization and globalization during the 20th century further changed the industry profile as well as the styles of beers produced. The craft beer revolution of the past forty years has generated a renewed interest in the artistry and science of brewing while creating a new generation of beer connoisseurs. Despite its growing popularity, brewing continues to face significant structural barriers restricting who has access to these spaces. This course will explore the historical, cultural, and economic forces that have influenced, and been influenced by, the production and consumption of beer in its many styles and varieties. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for a 100-level PHIL course and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement. Benjamin Anderson, a Senior Lecturer in the Department of Economics, has been teaching at Hudson and calling Hamilton his home since 2011. In addition to teaching and research interests in the economics of sports, Ben is excited to teach a course combining his research interests in the industrial organization of agricultural and food industries with his personal interests in beer history and culture. He received his PhD in Agricultural, Environmental, and Development Economics from The Ohio State University in 2011 and his research has been published in the Journal of Industrial Economics, the American Journal of Agricultural Economics, the Journal of Sports Economics, and Applied Economics."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 181	The American City	"Examines the geographies of the urban areas–central cities and their suburbs–in which the large majority of the American population lives. One of the central questions of geography as a discipline is “the why of where.” Why, we will ask, are certain areas of cities used in certain ways (e.g., residence, industry, recreation)? How are residential areas patterned spatially by income, race, and other factors? How have these and other patterns changed over the past several centuries, and why, and how do they affect people’s lives today? After addressing these and other questions, we’ll conclude by adding one more category and exploring how urban, suburban, and rural America differ from one another and why. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for GEOG 312 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 182	The American School	"Provides an introductory exploration of issues concerning the educational system. It is designed for students to gain a critical perspective of the purpose and functions of the American school while at the same time drawing contrast and comparison to educational systems around the world. Embedded within this main theme, students investigate the historical foundations of education, socio-cultural influence upon academic achievement (e.g., gender, sexuality, race, economic status, ability), and educational policy decisions that play a major role in students' educational attainment and opportunity. Course materials support a variety of pedagogical methods. Students are encouraged to connect class readings and discussions to their personal schooling experiences, which allows students to acquire fresh and innovative perspectives on their educational foundations. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for EDUC 101 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 183	"Nature, Culture, & Politics"	"The words ""nature"" and ""the environment"" conjure up visions of wild animals and open landscapes, but are people part of nature too? Students are showed how nature and human culture are intertwined, both in terms of how we shape our environment as well as how it shapes us. Through a series of case studies, students explore this relationship, focusing especially on the way that nature and culture are ""political"": inequalities, social problems and movements, and power relations all flow from the way that we interact with our environment. Students take a global, comparative, and historical view of this process, and the following special topics are included: the rise of environmental awareness and environmental social movements; globalization and environmental values; consumption and the environment; environmental inequalities and justice; risk, technology, and environmental politics; and public policy and the environment. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for ANTH/SOCI 245 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 184	Is the Planet Doomed?	"""End of the world"" scenarios have been linked to global pandemics, overpopulation, nuclear wars, and melting permafrost. ""Is the Planet Doomed"" uses these and other examples to study contemporary catastrophism. Students explore arguments that suggest the world may have reached ""peak humanity."" Potential mass extinction events arise from the convergence of biological, climatic, economic, technological factors on one hand, and conflicts and wars on the other. Students analyze these factors using the integrative modes of analysis commonly used in the discipline of geography. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for GEOG 107 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 185	Silk Roads	"Just where, exactly, is the Silk Road? Or are there many silk roads? How has it changed in focus or cultural significance and focus over time? What roles have China, Central Asia, and Europe played in its historical creation and current reimagining? Students focus on the cultural and socioeconomic relationships that developed in the past along the fabled Silk Road and that are being revived to imagine and reimagine the New Silk Roads initiatives today. Students survey the overland trade routes through Central Asia that connected East Asia with Europe. Students consider the local, regional, and intercontinental impacts of the Silk Road and New Silk Roads. Students explore the interactions of nomadic and sedentary peoples, cultural confrontations and syncretism, and the spread of religions, ideas, and foods. Students will host their own bazaar and try some of the cuisines! Students are challenged to think across time, space, and cultures, and encouraged to explore new ideas with new peers, and hone writing and speaking skills for college-level courses. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for a 100-level REST course and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement. Jessica Graybill is an interdisciplinarian with expertise in the geosciences and in social, cultural, and environmental studies of Russia and Eurasia. She can't wait to share her passion for this place and its cultures and communities with you, while also asking hard questions about it, in your first semester at Hudson! When not teaching, Prof. Graybill’s current research carries her to the Arctic where she studies the cultural impacts of climate change."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 186	"War: Past, Present, Future"	"How can we account for the trends that have shaped the evolution of modern warfare over the course of the past two centuries? How can we leverage this history to understand issues of contemporary armed conflict and organized violence, including civil wars, terrorism, genocide, and humanitarian interventions, as well as new forms high-technology warfare involving drones and cyber attacks? In order to understand the present and future of warfare, a variety of sources and methods (readings, documentaries, podcasts, datasets, focused discussions, and interactive lectures) are used to introduce students to the fundamental transformations in the practices of armed conflict. Students engage with both qualitative and quantitative forms of information, while exploring the fundamentals of college level research, writing, and analysis. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for PCON 111 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 187	Muslim Cultures and Global Modernity	"Using the theoretical and methodological tools of cultural anthropology, students address fundamental questions regarding Islam in contemporary and historical societies: What is Islam? How have different Muslims interpreted Islam in the past, and how do Muslims in different cultures live their religion differently today? To pursue these questions students begin with a discussion on the modern politics of interpreting Islam—how 19th and 20th century Western colonial powers established an “Orientalist” view of Islam both as overly sensuous and inherently violent—and how these interpretations remain in force today. From there students discuss Islam’s historical origins in 7th century Arabia and the development of key social institutions of law and learning in Muslim empires to the 19th century. From there students dive into Islam’s distinct modern history of transformation under 19th century European colonialism and global capitalism. Finally, students pursue in-depth cultural studies of Islam in specific contemporary nation-states and regions, with a repeated emphasis on the late 20th and 21st century Islamic Revival. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for ANTH/MIST 252 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement. As a 20-year-old in 1992 I left college for a year and traveled in Europe and Morocco; Europe felt mostly familiar. Morocco (a Muslim culture) felt utterly different--foreign. Although I could not have predicted it then, this encounter was decisive in my life: As a social-cultural anthropologist I now specialize in the study of Islam and spend years and months at a time in Morocco."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 188	Living and Dying in Early Modern Britain	"Big personalities and names dominate popular consciousness of early modern Great Britain: Henry VIII; Mary, Queen of Scots; Elizabeth; Oliver Cromwell. We can acknowledge the importance of such figures, however, without crowding out other, less prominent stories that are crucial for understanding this tumultuous period in British History. Britain underwent major political and religious changes between the late fifteenth and early eighteenth centuries, from the English and Scottish Reformations to the formation of the British state in 1707 from what had been the independent kingdoms of England and Scotland. Yet, these were far more than just high political developments. They had significant, and often hugely disruptive and traumatic effects on people’s lives and communities, and on how people saw themselves in the world. Nonetheless, life went on, in ways that can seem both alien and surprisingly familiar—and students use the myriad historical sources for this period, including diaries, newspapers, government records, and visual art, to do the imaginative and analytic work to understand how regular people experienced everyday life and major historical developments. In doing so, students also gain insight into the deep historical roots of modern social and political issues such as Brexit and the status of Northern Ireland. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for HIST 241 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement. Tristan Tomlinson is senior lecturer in University Studies and History. He specializes in the histories of early modern Britain and its empire, and is particularly interested in issues of health, population, and interconnections throughout the British Atlantic World."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 189	Intro to Comparative Politics	"Offers an introduction to the main theoretical and methodological issues in the comparative study of politics. The goal is to provide students with the basic tools to understand the nature of the research questions that political scientists ask, the theories that they produce to answer them, and the empirical evidence that they garner to substantiate their theoretical claims. The coursework is organized around five macro-components (states and nations, political regimes, institutions, contentious politics, and political economy), which in turn are subdivided into narrower topics. By the end of the semester, students should be able to conceptualize varied political phenomena and their determinants, including, among others: state capacity, nationalism, political violence, democratization, parties, forms of government, and development. The empirical material covered in the course draws from different regions of the world including Africa, South and North America, East and Southeast Asia, and Western Europe. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for POSC 153 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 190	Ukraine & Eastern Europe in War & Peace	"How can history help us make sense of the terrible war now being fought in Ukraine? Digging deep into the past, students unearth the tangled roots of today’s war and violence. But our exploration also reveals other, more hopeful realities about Eastern Europe: stories of resistance, coexistence, adaptation, and creativity. This course is open to all, and especially to students interested in history, Eastern Europe, migration, authoritarianism, and empires. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for a 100-level HIST course and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement. Robert Nemes teaches courses in European and global history. He's recently visited Moscow and Kiev, and he's now writing a history of Budapest."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 191	Introduction to Museum Studies	"Besides being sites of culture and heritage and hubs for community-building, museums are economic engines. In the U.S., museums contribute more than $50 billion to the economy each year, and they support more than 725,000 jobs. Students are introduced to the interdisciplinary array of historical, theoretical, and practical topics that comprise the fast-growing field of Museum Studies. Key themes include: the history and function of museums; the ethics of collecting and museology, including post-colonial critiques; the role of power and politics in museum spaces; the potential of museums to serve as sites of conflict mediation and historical dialogue; and the practical aspects and challenges of museum management, education, and curating. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive credit for HIST/MUSE 120 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, & agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 192	History Workshop	"History is not a list of dates or a litany of facts. History is a collective effort to make sense of the people, events, and forces that have shaped the world we inhabit. It is the project of assembling a vast repository of human experience, with all its twists and turns, all its varied dreams and nightmares. In this course, students join that collective effort and contribute to that repository. They make history. They dig deep in archives, develop their voices as tellers of stories and crafters of narratives, and discuss different ways to interpret the past while speaking to our present. They wrestle with the changing meaning and significance of big categories like race, class, gender, religion, and sexuality. They practice empathy, seeking to understand the past on its own terms, and also commit to empirical investigation, building arguments and stories on evidence. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for HIST 199 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement. Dan Bouk studied math in college before getting bit by the history bug. He writes about the history of personal data in the U.S. and about other important, powerful things shrouded by cloaks of boringness."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 193	Introduction to Sociology	"To what extent does society shape us as individuals? How do race, class, and gender play a role in who we become? These are key questions in the study of social groups and human behavior. In this broad overview of the discipline of sociology, students cover concepts such as the sociological imagination, culture and socialization, deviance and social control, sex and gender, race and class, poverty and stratification, social problems, and social change. Students focus on social norms in U.S. society, as well as right here at Hudson. By the end of the course, students are able to think and problem-solve like sociologists. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for SOCI 101 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 194	"Culture, Diversity, Inequality"	"Many people think anthropology is the study of foreign cultures elsewhere. However, the cultural anthropological project is about both “making the strange familiar” and “making the familiar strange.” The global pandemic forced everyone to see the familiar in new ways; it allowed everyone to see like an anthropologist. Through looking at different cultural contexts--some quite far from most students’ experiences, and others not so far from home--students become familiar with the questions anthropologists ask. The seminar is designed to introduce students to key areas of critical inquiry in cultural anthropology--culture theory, systemic racism, social inequities, sex/gender systems, kinship structures, and language in society. Although engagement with cultural difference is a major project of anthropology, reflecting back on one’s own culture is also part of the discipline’s approach. This seminar aims to transform the way students look at everyday life in the world today. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for ANTH 102 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 195	Introduction to Sociology	"A special topic introduction to sociology. Students first address the basic foundations of this discipline. What is the sociological imagination? What is this seemingly abstract thing we call society and what do sociologists mean by social structure and social forces? What do sociologists mean by macro and micro social processes? From this general introduction the course follows the special topic of social inequality and social power in American society. Within this theme students look at class, race, gender, sexuality, status, education, sports, work, crime, and self-identity. This course is committed to helping students develop critical analytical tools for discovering how social power affects the lives of individuals and communities. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for SOCI 101 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 196	Global Peace & War	"“Is war necessary? Can war be avoided? Have nuclear proliferation and terrorism permanently changed the world? Is cooperation between states possible? Can order, justice and cooperation be achieved in a non-institutionalized and non-hierarchical system? How has globalization changed the political and economic relations between states? What will climate change mean for international politics? Students are provided an introduction to the study of international relations, which seeks to understand why and how politics between states differs from politics within a state. After considering the basic theoretical approaches to international relations, such as realism, neoliberal institutionalism, and constructivism, it examines some of the most pressing problems facing states today. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for POSC 152 and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, & agents area of inquiry requirement. Valerie Morkevi?ius' research focuses on the intersection between power and ethics, and the applicability of traditional just war thinking to contemporary challenges, including cyberwarfare and information warfare. Her favorite part of life in Hamilton is foraging in the woods above Hudson."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 197	Campaigns and Voting Behavior	"How should we explain voting behavior in elections? Why do some people abstain from voting altogether? Are political campaigns ""effective"" at persuading people to vote for a particular candidate? How do modern political campaigns function, and with what consequences? Students examine these and other pertinent questions about political campaigns in American politics. In doing so, they consider diverse perspectives for thinking about elections. They read and discuss data-driven scholarship about recent campaigns, enduring philosophical essays, and journalistic works by literary authors. By the end of the course, students better understand the nature and origins of voting behavior and be better able to analyze and evaluate political campaigns. Students who successfully complete this seminar will earn credit for a 200-level POSC course and satisfy one half of the social relations, institutions, and agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 198	Fundamentals of International Relations	"What are the causes of war and the conditions for peace in international politics? This course answers this question by providing students with an introduction to approaches to understanding international relations. Students examine theories about what states want in the international system, how states achieve these aims, and how states handle contemporary problems facing the world today. Topics covered include, but are not limited to, the causes of war, alliance politics, globalization, nuclear weapons, humanitarian intervention, terrorism, and cybersecurity. Students who successfully complete this seminar will receive course credit for POSC 232 and satisfy one half of the Social Relations, Institutions, and Agents area of inquiry requirement."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
FSEM 199	Remote Sensing	"[OPEN TO AMS SCHOLARS ONLY] Satellites, drones, and related technologies have dramatically altered the way we observe our world, and improved how we understand it. These new approaches to earth observations are commonly referred to as remote sensing, and involve the collection and analysis of energy that is either reflected or emitted by an object in order to acquire information about it without direct physical contact. Students learn about the fundamental physical processes that form the basis of remote sensing, and then explore some of the different ways remote sensing data are acquired and interpreted. Using a range of computational tools, students process, analyze, and interpret remotely sensed data from a wide variety of sources. Students also engage the scientific literature in order to understand how remote sensing is used to address challenges facing society. Students who successfully complete this seminar receive credit for CORE 103S and satisfy the scientific perspectives core requirement."		3		Scientific Perspectives		
GEOG 105	Climate and Society	"Human-induced climate change--global warming--is the defining environmental and social issue of our times. That people are dramatically altering the climate is now the resounding consensus in the scientific community. Potential short- and long-term impacts include biodiversity loss, sea-level rise and coastal flooding, more intense storms, threats to human health, and disruptions of freshwater supplies and food security. But while the global community increasingly understands the basic processes driving climate change, and is starting to appreciate the consequences of a warmer world, the coupled social and biophysical dynamics of global warming are complex and the issue remains controversial. This course explores climate-society relationships in industrial and pre-industrial periods, and considers the multifaceted natural and human dimensions of global warming. It also highlights the integrative natural and social science modes of analysis commonly used in the discipline of geography."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 107	Is the Planet Doomed?	"End of the world scenarios have been linked to global pandemics, super-volcanoes, artificial intelligence, and melting permafrost. ""Is the Planet Doomed"" uses these and other examples to study contemporary catastrophism. The course explores arguments that suggest the world may have reached ""peak humanity."" Potential mass extinction events arise from the convergence of biological, climatic, economic, technological factors on one hand, and war on the other. The course analyzes these factors using the integrative modes of analysis commonly used in the discipline of geography. And it exposes how geography affects the catastrophic imaginary."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 111	"Global Shift:Econ, Soc, & Geog"	"We are living in a time of genuinely global change. People throughout the world are increasingly affected by common developments such as the introduction of new technologies, increasing economic competition, climate change, rapid urbanization, shifting gender roles, political violence, environmental degradation, international migration, and the persistence of hunger and disease. Yet, global change is not a uniform process; certain aspects of global change can have very different consequences for people living in different settings. This course uses the perspective of human geography to understand the increasingly globalized world of the early 21st century. Students will identify and examine various dimensions of change in human wellbeing by exploring critical demographic, social, cultural, economic, political, and environmental trends. To comprehend the implications of these global shifts, students will examine the dynamics of the processes influencing them and consider the key issues raised by them. This will necessitate taking a close look at how change is occurring not only at the global scale but also in particular regional and local settings, ranging from North America to Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 131	Environmental Geography	"Provide students with a general understanding of the processes and spatial distribution of the Earth's primary physical systems and the ways in which humans interact with these systems. Course emphasis is divided into three areas: atmospheric processes, the spatial dynamics of vegetation and soils, and landform development. Students are introduced to the basic physical processes and interactions that operate within each of these categories, with special focus on the ways in which these factors relate to contemporary environmental problems."	GEOG	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOG 205	Climate & Society	"Human-induced climate change--global warming--is the defining environmental and social issue of our times. That people are dramatically altering the climate is now the resounding consensus in the scientific community. Potential short- and long-term impacts include biodiversity loss, sea-level rise and coastal flooding, more intense storms, threats to human health, and disruptions of freshwater supplies and food security. But while the global community increasingly understands the basic processes driving climate change, and is starting to appreciate the consequences of a warmer world, the coupled social and biophysical dynamics of global warming are complex and the issue remains controversial. This course explores climate-society relationships in industrial and pre-industrial periods, and considers the multifaceted natural and human dimensions of global warming. It also highlights the integrative natural and social science modes of analysis commonly used in the discipline of geography."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 207	Is the Planet Doomed?	"End of the world scenarios have been linked to global pandemics, super-volcanoes, artificial intelligence, and melting permafrost. ""Is the Planet Doomed"" uses these and other examples to study contemporary catastrophism. The course explores arguments that suggest the world may have reached ""peak humanity."" Potential mass extinction events arise from the convergence of biological, climatic, economic, technological factors on one hand, and war on the other. The course analyzes these factors using the integrative modes of analysis commonly used in the discipline of geography. And it exposes how geography affects the catastrophic imaginary."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 211	"Geographies of Nature, Economy, Society"	"Acquaints students with the approaches and subject matter of human and nature-society geography. It introduces geography’s longstanding concerns with spatial location, place, and nature-society interaction, as studied through ways of knowing that are central to the discipline—spatial representation and analysis, cross-scalar comparisons, integrative synthesis, and the social construction of space and environment. Case studies, drawn from all world regions, illustrate how geographers use these tools and perspectives to clarify such issues as human well-being and inequality, economic and sociocultural globalization, population patterns and processes, human impact on the environment, and sustainable development in the Anthropocene."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 231	Geography of the Physical Environment	"Provides students with a general understanding of the processes and spatial distribution of the Earth's primary physical systems and the ways in which humans interact with these systems. Course emphasis is divided into three areas: atmospheric processes, the spatial dynamics of vegetation and soils, and landform development. Students are introduced to the basic physical processes and interactions that operate within each of these categories, with special focus on the ways in which these factors relate to contemporary environmental problems."	GEOG	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOG 245	Geographic Information Systems	"Focuses on the theory, function, and application of geographic information systems (GIS). The analytical powers of GIS are rooted in its ability to manage large volumes of geographically referenced data representing both physical and social characteristics. As such, GIS has become an important analytical approach in most subfields of geography. Students begin with an examination of basic mapping concepts, geographic data issues, symbolism, and generalization. Emphasis then shifts to issues in GIS data structure, collection, and input. Once a solid understanding of these GIS foundation issues is achieved, attention turns to the analytical powers and applications of GIS. These topics are reinforced by a series of exercises dealing with local geographic data. Students make use of the ArcGIS geographic information system and involves map digitization, geographic data collection (using global positioning systems, satellite imagery, and aerial photography), database management, and spatial analysis."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 245L	Geographic Information Systems Lab	Required corequisite to GEOG 245.	GEOG	1			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 250	Research Methods	"Acquaints students with key principles and practices of original scholarly research. Coursework first emphasizes the key role in research of a clearly formulated question, one that is significant and workable and is grounded in a conceptual framework drawn from the existing literature. Then the focus shifts to the techniques and rationale of a particular method of research, which will vary from semester to semester. Examples of possible foci include statistical analysis, interviews, community-based and participatory research, content analysis, or the interpretation of historical primary sources. In close consultation with the instructor, students design, carry out, and report on a research project employing that method to answer a question of their own design."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 250E	Field Research in Siberia	"The goal of this extended study is to provide students with first-hand field experience in physical and social geography. Students will travel to the Northeast Scientific Station in the Siberia Arctic to collect data on culture, landscapes, society, soils, and vegetation using a variety of methodological approaches and field techniques. After this field course students will enroll use this data to answer research questions that seek to: 1) Understand biogeophysical consequences of climate change in the Arctic; 2) Understand social and cultural transitions underway in the Arctic as direct and indirect consequences of climatic, sociocultural (cultural, economic, and political) changes; and 3) Have the ability to identify and explain key linkages between physical and social components of the Arctic System."	GEOG	2			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 251	Media Frame & Content Analysis	"Mass media is a key set of institutions in modernity that shape our perceptions of the world, with important impacts on what we take to be reality. The media ""frames"" that structure how media is produced, conveyed, and consumed form the discourses that we use to understand mass politics and culture in our daily lives. This course provides students with the methodological tools to empirically study media frames through content analysis. Content analysis takes the stuff of media, such as music lyrics, news stories, or advertisements, and systematically analyzes the content for the explicit and implicit frames that represent the issues and perspectives conveyed through media. The course provides students hands-on training in content analysis through a series of workshops on content sampling, collection, coding, and analysis that culminate in a final research project. This course meets for the first 7 weeks of the term and may be used to satisfy the 0.50-credit methods requirement for the sociology major."	GEOG	2				
GEOG 303	The Camp: A Global History of Civilian Internment	"Reviews a history of civilian internment by analyzing the geographic proliferation of camps throughout the planet. In modern and contemporary history, authoritarian states and democracies alike have developed concentration camps, internment camps, refugee camps, detention camps, and displaced persons camps -- in ever increasing numbers. Countries have done so in order to separate and define populations they would or could not assimilate within the political life of the nation state, thereby relegating those populations to an exceptional status instead. To study the geographic spread of camps as technologies for advancing a state of exception, then, is to learn how –and to what extent-- human rights have been acknowledged or betrayed in contemporary history."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 304	"Criminal Underworld: Drugs, Guns, Bodies"	"Examines the violent networks of the illicit global economy: from guns and drugs smuggling, to human trafficking and animal poaching among others. Drawing from multiple scholarly traditions, it compares the concrete geographical organization of these illicit networks - that is, where and how they become grounded - and asks the following questions: What are the relationships of these illegal activities to legal circuits of power and profit? In what ways are transnational criminal networks redefining the nature of contemporary violence and the meaning of peace?"	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 306	The Geography of Happiness	"Achieving some degree of happiness is a primary goal for most people. Certainly, a huge industry has emerged in recent years to feed the public's desire for ways to improve their happiness. There is also a rapidly growing amount of research on the subject. This course starts with an overview of the diverse, multidisciplinary scholarship on factors that may contribute to happiness. But the main goal of the course is to consider themes central to the discipline of geography: how do environmental changes, efforts to achieve sustainable development, and culture affect the geography of happiness? Do people achieve a greater sense of well-being when interacting with wilderness or by exploring nature in their backyards? Does environmental stewardship improve happiness? What roles do attitudes about food and leisure play in how happy people are? Students explore these questions via out-of-class excursions, films, a diverse mix of scholarly and popular press readings, guest speakers, and individual research projects."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 307	What's in your cup? The Geography of what we Drink/SRS	"What people eat and drink connects them to a global socioecology and a complex exchange of commodities. What’s in your cup? uses our daily consumption of beverages to analyze the social and environmental implications of how people live. From the energy used to boil water for a morning coffee to the biota disturbed by farmers across the world, what we drink may be linked to carbon emissions, water pollution, and public health hazards, all of which have implications for consumers and producers alike. Challenges, such as climate change, limited access to land, and market shifts, often leave farmers vulnerable. But there are also many examples of efforts that empower farmers to live well and care for the land, provide consumers access to ethically produced beverages, and initiatives that promote sustainable development. Using examples from around the world students explore the geography of what people drink."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 307R	SRS: Research & Reflection		GEOG	1				
GEOG 309	Lat Amer: Landscapes of Devel	"Explores the development experience of Latin America through examination of pressing environmental, economic, political, and social issues that currently face the region as a whole and play out differently across the region. The focus is guided by a critical reading of development theory, paying particular attention to Latin American theorizations and empirical experiences, and concern for the subjects, places, and scales that have been excluded from the presumed benefits of development. Mindful that Latin America's development experience is historically embedded, students examine the transformation of Latin American societies and environments through legacies of conquest and colonialism, processes of globalization and neo-liberalization, dynamics of rural and urban change, changes in gender and race relations, and transformations of political and civil society dynamics. These issues are grounded in case studies drawn from Central America, the Caribbean, and Andean countries, and Southern Cone, and Brazil. The course's point of entry is contemporary environmental crises and the role of natural and human resources in shaping the development experience of the region."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 310	Geopolitics	"Broadly defined, Geopolitics is the study of ""the relationship among politics and geography, demography, and economics, especially with respect to the foreign policy of a nation."" As the study of political geography on a global scale, geopolitics examines the relationship between territories, boundaries, and states in the ""closed system"" we call planet earth. But geopolitics is more than an academic field. Geopolitical thought has actually instructed states how to relate to one another in the contest for territory, security, and resources. For example, the history of geopolitical analysis is closely connected to -- and has often justified -- various imperial projects. As a result, this course examines the relation between the development of geopolitical thought on one hand, and geopolitical events on the other. Of particular importance to the relation between theories of geopolitics and the actual geostrategies of states has been the development of conflict on a planetary scale. And so, this course traces that relation through the study of geopolitical thought and practice in the course of imperial struggles in the 19th century, World Wars and the threat of nuclear wars in the 20th century, and new global challenges such as resource wars and environmental security in our own time."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 311	Global Urban	"An exploration of contemporary urban geography and academic writing about the city. It introduces students to the ways in which urban geography has played a role, along with other disciplines that focus on the urban, in understanding cities and the issues that surround them. This includes an examination of how cities are conceived, lived, and represented. The course investigates the following topics: What are the various ways that people create, and attempt to materialize, their geographical imaginations of what they want the city to be? What are the ways in which different social groups make claims on space and place, and how does the scale at which these activities occur have effects? What are the critical questions to ask about urban landscapes today? How would you formulate a research proposal on such topics? The course offers a theoretical and practical framework within which to examine the city as a site of socio-cultural and political-economic transformation. In this framework, students analyze how the state, market, and civil society intersect, and how this has changed over the 20th century in the U.S. and other parts of the world."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 311R	SRS: Research & Reflection		GEOG	1				
GEOG 312	The American City	"Focuses on the historical development and contemporary spatial patterns and processes of American cities. Topics emphasized include the decentralization of people and jobs within urban areas, metropolitan political fragmentation, racial residential segregation, inner-city gentrification, urban public service provision issues, the role of new immigrant groups, and feminist perspectives on urban geography, plus international and interregional comparisons to elicit distinctive characteristics of urbanization in the US."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 313	Geographical Political Economy: Asia in Globalization	"Contemporary sociocultural and environmental issues cannot be understood without a good grasp of globalizing, yet place-specific political economic contexts in which these issues are embedded. The course aims to prepare students with conceptual and analytical foundations of economic geography with a particular attention to the roles of states, firms, and workers in the increasingly interconnected world. A strong empirical emphasis is given to Asia, although other world regions are addressed throughout the course for comparative and integrative purposes. Questions asked in this course include: what causes territorial economic growth and decline? How do place-specific economic structures influence policies? How are ""the economy"" and environment interrelated? Does advanced technology make geography irrelevant? Does economic growth produce socio-spatial inequality? In answering these questions, Asia offers a critical empirical arena to test theories and hypotheses, many of which have been developed primarily in the Euro-American contexts."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 315	Sustainable Livelihoods in Asia	"We are living in the world of growing uncertainty filled with various ""shocks"" such as natural disasters, financial crises, and development projects, and more insidious ""distress"" via resource depletion, excessive industrial specialization, and demographic transitions. This course focuses on how households and communities cope with, resist, adapt to, and challenge these large structural ""disturbances"" in locally specific and ingenious ways in order to take control and enhance their livelihood opportunities and cultural identities. Case studies are drawn from various parts of Asia, with a particular focus on Japan. Although theoretical foundations of this course are grounded in the literature on sustainable livelihood and community resilience in geography and neighboring fields, it is designed for students with various disciplinary backgrounds and interest in Asia. Students are expected to apply their disciplinary skills and regional knowledge to the course project."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 318	"International Migration, U.S. Immigration, and Immigrants"	"Introduces students to approaches to the study of international migration, immigrant assimilation and adjustment, ethnic social and economic stratification, and immigration policy formation and analysis. These topics are explored within the historical and contemporary context of the United States and New York. The class considers theoretical perspectives that have been applied to the study of migration as well as approaches used by sociologists and geographers in empirical analyses of US immigration, immigrant populations, and ethnic relations. These analytical issues are considered in detail for immigrant and ethnic groups within New York State and the New York metropolitan community. Finally, students consider the relationships among patterns of immigration and ethnic relations, cultural change, international relations and transnational linkages, and US immigration policy reform."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 319	Population and Environment	"Uses the case of Western Australia to explore demographic and environmental change dynamics. Begins with the historical geography of indigenous people within the context of European colonization and nation-building. Then sets the environmental stage by examining the region’s physical geography, with particular focus on climate, water, and soils. Changes in environmental conditions are connected to cultural and political economic shifts. Colonial and modern land-use practices are compared with those grounded in Aboriginal history and ways of living. A core goal of the course is to have students consider whether a sustainable relationship between people and the environment is possible, and how best to achieve that goal."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 321	Transnational Feminist Geography	"Introduces students to major themes and issues in feminist geography, both in the U.S. and globally. Explores how environments shape, and are shaped by, gendered power dynamics in society. Addresses geographic issues from feminist approaches to social justice to advance students’ understandings of the complex relationships between spatiality and power relations. To this end, students work across diverse geographies to explore (1) the social relations underlying geographic problems; (2) the ways in which gender, class, race, sexuality, nationality, and dis/ability intersect in environmental issues; and (3) feminist geographic methods and theories of knowledge production. Students bring a global perspective to the issues by drawing out local-global linkages. Case studies are drawn from North America, Latin America, Africa, Asia, and the Pacific."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 322	Ecologies of the City	"With half of the world's population living in and around cities, the needs of urban-based populations and economies dominate non-urban peoples, places, and habitats worldwide. This course begins with an introduction to political ecology, a body of knowledge combining political economy and cultural ecology. Political economy is the study of how different societies are connected globally, and cultural ecology is the study of the relationship between a society and its natural environment. Although political ecology largely focuses on places and cultures of ""pristine"" or ""native"" nature in ""other"" countries, this course turns to urban settings to explore how people understand urban areas and what their relationship to the environment in these areas is. Case studies of specific places (from small cities in upstate New York to global cities in distant countries) are used to learn about urban political ecological issues through readings, assignments, discussion, and interaction with local/regional experts on urban environmental problems. Students apply their knowledge about urban political ecology both collaboratively, in a final project conducted in a workshop-type setting, and individually, in a final term paper."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 323	Arctic Transformations	"The Arctic is one of the most rapidly changing regions of the world today, environmentally, culturally, and politically. Rapid biophysical change occurs here today due to climate change, but equally noteworthy are cultural, social, and political transformations experienced by people living and working in the Arctic. People are under increasing pressure to change along with transformation of their biophysical environments, particularly as new actors express interest in the Arctic as space opening up to global transportation, mineral exploration, and trade and ecotourism. Within geography, interest in Arctic phenomena includes grappling with complex issues related to social and biophysical changes in this region, which often originate beyond the region but have specific meaning for the region. Students investigate three vibrant areas of Arctic transformation: cultural transformation occurring among indigenous and local peoples, biological and physical transformation of the environment, and political transformation within and related to the region."	GEOG	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 325	Water and Society	"No natural substance is more vital to human existence or used in more different ways than fresh water. This course considers the natural and social processes (with primary focus on the latter) that shape water use both within and outside of the United States, including physical factors, technology, economics, culture, law, and political systems and ideologies. The focus is on the services that water provides, the causes and consequences of water scarcity, and the ways in which water's services might be obtained in more sustainable ways."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 326	Environmental Hazards	"Environmental hazards are threats to people and the things they value. Hazards are a complex mix of natural processes and human actions; thus, they do not just happen, but are caused. Emphasis is on the role of institutions, technology, and human behavior in hazard creation, as well as ways in which society responds to hazards of multiple origins: case studies center on earthquakes, hurricanes, and wildfire (natural hazards); toxic pollution (technological hazards); and invasive species (biological hazards). A key theme explores ways in which society may mitigate the risk of environmental hazards and manage them more effectively."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 327	Australia's Stolen Generations: The Legacies of Carrolup (Extended Study)	"The intellectual goal of this extended study is to address issues of both population vulnerabilities and cultural resilience by considering Aborigines in Australia, and specifically engaging the historical geography and the contemporary experience of the Noongar community in Western Australia. Three themes form the curricular program of the extended study. (1) Students study the historical geography of Aborigines in Australia within the context of European colonization and settlement, federation and nation-building. These issues are framed using concepts of population vulnerability, environmental impact, and cultural heritage and identity at the national, regional and local geographic scales. (2) Students study the impacts of national, regional and local policies directed toward indigenous peoples on Aboriginal families and children, given particular focus to programs concerning part-Aboriginal children, Australia's ""Stolen Generations."" (3) Students learn the ways in which Aboriginal culture and 'care for country' has remained resilient across time, space, and generations."	GEOG	2				
GEOG 329	Environmental Security	"About how the environment poses one of the most important security threats of the 21st century. From an interdisciplinary perspective, students are introduced to the different ways that climate change and environmental problems more generally are presenting new kinds of security threats. In many ways, greater environmental concern from governments and international organizations over the dramatic environmental changes afoot in the world is a welcome development. But will the ""environmental security"" framework reinforce global inequalities and maintain the status quo? Or might it mean rethinking the very foundations of what we mean by “security”?"	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 331	Environmental Data Science	"Introduces fundamental concepts and tools central to the emerging field of Environmental Data Science. Satellites, environmental sensors, and citizen science networks collect a tremendous amount of geospatial data that offers unprecedented insight into the environment. The integration of computational tools, statistics, and an understanding of the earth system is essential for utilizing big data to understand environmental processes (e.g. climate change, food security). Topics covered include data provenance and reproducibility, data fusion, visualization, and statistical programing for environmental data. Students learn how to manipulate and analyze large climatic, ecological, and geospatial data sets using a statistical programing language. No prior programming experience is required."	GEOG	3	GEOG 245 or COSC 101		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOG 332	Weather and Climate	"Focuses on the principles of meteorology and climatology with particular emphasis on Earth/energy dynamics, atmospheric circulation, and middle latitude climatology. Elements of Earth's energy system are used first to establish the basic causal forces that drive all weather phenomena. These concepts are extended into a section on atmospheric forces and thermodynamics, and used to build an understanding of the middle latitude climate system, including middle tropospheric circulation vorticity concepts and surface cyclone and anticyclone development. During this process, students perform several exercises that focus on atmospheric data analysis and forecasting. These exercises make use of numerous online meteorological data resources and culminate in a case study project involving the detailed analysis of a significant weather event."	GEOG	3	GEOG 131 or GEOG 231		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOG 335	Soil Geography	Focuses on the factors that influence soil distributions at scales ranging from a hillside to an entire continent. Begins with an introduction to soil morphology and genesis as a means to begin to understand the spatial variability of different soil properties. These concepts are extended into a section on soil geomorphology and the role soils play in global change research. Additional topics to be emphasized include soil survey and predictive soil mapping. Throughout the course students perform exercises and/or participate in field excursions that focus on learning how to differentiate soils on the landscape.	GEOG	3	GEOG 131 or FSEM 178 or GEOG 231		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOG 338	Earth System Ecology	"Examines how plants influence exchanges of energy, carbon, and water between the biosphere and the atmosphere. Begins with an examination of key biological and physical processes that regulate ecosystem carbon and water cycles, paying particular attention to critical linkages between the two. This leads to a consideration of how these processes function at larger spatial scales, and how they vary with time in response to climatic drivers. The land surface energy balance is discussed here as well, because it is inextricably linked with ecosystem carbon and water cycling. Finally, the interplay between ecosystems and climate is examined."	GEOG	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOG 340	GIS and Society	"Explores the impact of geographic information systems (GIS) on society. Begins by considering how technological advances in GIS have transformed the nature of geographic data creation and opened up entirely new fields of spatial analysis. Various theoretical perspectives are employed to better understand issues of privacy and ethics as they relate to GIS technologies. Specific topics include locational privacy, participatory GIS, volunteered geographic information, location-based services, the geoweb and new media, digital social/spatial inequalities, and the role of GIS in security and surveillance."	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 346	Adv Geographic Info Systems	"Focuses on geographic information systems (GIS) theory and complex spatial analysis. It is divided into two segments: GIS concepts and theory, and advanced GIS analysis and application. The first segment explores the evolution of GIS from a set of cartographic and data analytical tools used primarily by geographers to a more encompassing set of ideas and tools used by many disciplines to examine spatial processes. Included in the first segment is a thorough examination of issues associated with mapping and referencing the non-spherical earth, conceptual models for representing spatial phenomena, and data-quality issues. The second segment focuses on a select set of spatial analytical issues that can be addressed using GIS. These issues include analysis of continuous spatial phenomena (e.g., terrain), model building using multiple sources of spatial data, network analysis, and the integration of remotely sensed data in a GIS."	GEOG	2	GEOG 245			
GEOG 347	Satellite Image Analysis	"Image analysis is a method used in geography to analyze remotely sensed data, including both satellite images and data collected from aircraft, in order to obtain information about earth's surface phenomena from afar. The primary objective is to better understand, measure, and monitor features and human activities on Earth. Most typically, image analysis involves generating landcover maps using multi-spectral data collected by satellites. This course begins by focusing on the physical principles upon which image analysis is based, including the principles of acquiring and interpreting electromagnetic data collected by non-photographic sensors. Students then explore the basic tools of digital image processing (e.g., image enhancement, contract manipulation, etc.). This leads to a consideration of the process of image classification. Lastly, students discuss accuracy assessment as it applies to landcover classification, and spend a significant amount of time in the geography department computer lab performing analysis on remote sensing data."	GEOG	2	GEOG 245			
GEOG 401	Seminar in Geography	The senior seminar focuses on emerging research within a subfield of contemporary geography chosen by the instructor. Students identify and pursue advanced work on topics within that subfield.	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 499	Honors	Students pursuing honors research enroll in this course in the spring semester of the senior year. The research proposal must be approved by the Department of Geography.	GEOG	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
GEOG 591	"Geographies of Nature,Econ,Soc"		GEOG	3				
GEOL 101	Environmental Geology	"Many geologic processes and events have a significant impact on human societies. Volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, landslides and floods all threaten lives and property and societies rely on water, mineral, climate, and energy resources to thrive. Similarly, society has many impacts on the Earth system through water and air pollution and climate change. This course examines the complex interplay between human activities and the environment through a multi-disciplinary approach, with the goal of applying science to better manage natural hazard risk, understand and mitigate future climate change, and use water, mineral and energy resources more sustainably."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 101L	Environmental Geology Lab	"Required corequisite to GEOL 101. Labs are field-based as much as possible and are designed, not only to build a deeper understanding of the course material, but also to provide hands-on experience with some of the scientific techniques geologists use to study the environment."	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 102	Sustainable Earth	"Focuses on Earth and its complex and life-sustaining resources, within an integrated framework including the terrestrial realm, the atmosphere, and the hydrosphere (freshwater, oceans, and glacial ice). Students develop a deeper understanding of the physical, chemical, biological and human interactions that determine the past, present and future states of Earth. Places a strong emphasis on the societal impacts of earth system science and provides a fundamental basis for understanding the world in which we seek to live sustainably."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 105	Megageology	"A course tracing the history of the Earth from the origin of the solar system to the present. Also considered are the origin and evolution of the Earth's crust and interior; plate tectonics, continental drift and mountain building; absolute age dating; the origin of the hydrosphere and atmosphere; earthquakes and volcanism. The results of recent planetary exploration are incorporated into an examination of the origin of the solar system."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 115	Evolution: Dinosaurs to Darwin	"The origin and evolution of dinosaurs and extinct mammals, including human ancestors, are examined as a vehicle for understanding how geologic and environmental forces—plate tectonics, asteroid strikes, and climate change—have shaped life processes through time. Interactive exercises promote exploration of Darwin’s (r)evolutionary ideas and facilitate debates about dinosaur physiology, social behavior, and future cloning. Evaluating evidence for dinosaur and mega-mammal extinctions provides the basis for understanding the current extinction crisis and for exploring species conservation strategies during a time of rapid environmental change."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 120	Geology of America's Parks	"Designed to introduce students to geological processes, materials, and basic field techniques using sites at National Parks in the United States and Canada. Major goals include developing a facility with basic field methods used in geology and other natural sciences, promoting understanding of how regional geological history and active modern processes shape landscapes, and exploring the impacts of human interactions with the natural world."	EEGS	2				
GEOL 135	Oceanography and the Environment	"A study of the major contemporary concepts of biological, chemical, geological, and physical oceanography. The nature and origin of ocean basins by global plate tectonics, sedimentation, sea water composition, water masses, oceanic circulation, waves, tides, life in the sea, and biological productivity, are all discussed. The role of human impacts and environmental change, including ocean warming and acidification, and marine pollution are stressed throughout the course."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 190	Evolution of Planet Earth	"Explores our planet's 4.5-billion year history and how geologists unearth the past through examination of minerals, rocks, and fossils. Earth's evolution is a natural experiment that cannot be reproduced, and students make use of primary observational and interpretative tools that geologists use to understand the past. Age-dating techniques, plate tectonics and origin of continental crust, mountain building events, and evolution of Earth's landscape, atmosphere, oceans, and biosphere are examined in the context of the geological evolution of North America."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	For students interested in concentrating in geology or environmental geology.
GEOL 190L	Evolution of Planet Earth Lab	"Required corequisite to GEOL 190. Laboratory sessions focus on providing a familiarization with common rocks, minerals, and fossils, and geologic field techniques, with an emphasis on how these materials and techniques are used to understand Earth and its history."	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 201	Mineralogy and Geochemistry	"Rocks and minerals are the stuff of which planets are composed. They are the source of nutrients that sustain all life on this planet, and the materials from which civilizations are built. Students come to understand the physical and chemical nature of minerals, and gain a familiarity with the most common minerals found on Earth. Other important topics covered include how and when Earth's materials were formed, and how their physical and chemical behaviors both control and tell us about major processes on the planet."	EEGS	3	One GEOL course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 201L	Mineralogy and Geochemistry Lab	"Required corequisite to GEOL 201. Labs introduce a variety of techniques used to study and identify minerals, including working with minerals in hand specimen, under the microscope, and using x-ray analysis. Hands-on activities build a deeper understanding of crystal structures and optics, and a familiarity with the most common minerals that compose the Earth and influence geologic processes and the quality of life our planet."	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 215	Paleontology of Marine Life	"Considers the fossil record of marine life from its origin to the present, emphasizing the evolution of invertebrate animals and marine environments through time. In class, lab, and in the field, students investigate a diversity of ecological and evolutionary questions through direct observation of fossil specimens, statistical analyses of paleontological datasets, and discussion of recently published scientific articles. Additional topics include mass extinctions and recoveries, morphological evolution, phylogenetics, paleoecology, paleontological approaches in conservation biology, and the history and ethics of fossil collecting."	EEGS	3	1 GEOL or 1 BIOL course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 215L	Paleontology of Marine Life Lab	"Required corequisite to GEOL 215. Lab and field exercises emphasize hands-on learning about the principles of paleontology, paleontological techniques, and the major groups of fossil-forming marine invertebrate animals. Local fieldtrips engage students in collecting, analyzing, and interpreting the remains of organisms that lived in Madison County more than 300 million years ago."	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 225	Sedimentology and Surficial Processes	"A detailed study of modern sedimentary environments and their use in interpreting ancient sedimentary rocks. The chemical and physical processes leading to weathering, erosion, transport, deposition, and lithification of sediments are considered. Interpretation of local Paleozoic, Pleistocene, and Holocene sediments is carried out through field study projects. Economic aspects of sedimentary rocks, such as the occurrence of oil, natural gas, and coal, are discussed."	EEGS	3	1 GEOL course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 225L	Sedimentology and Surficial Processes Lab	Required corequisite to GEOL 225.	EEGS	1				
GEOL 235	Tectonics and Earth Structure	"Mountain ranges, rifting continents and earthquakes show that the Earth is constantly deforming. Serves as an introduction to the principles of structural geology and geophysics, and explores the physical processes deforming Earth’s surface and interior and driving plate tectonics. Students will examine how and why deformation occurs, and what lines of evidence we use to study deformation on all scales, from the microscopic to global. The course will cover tectonic processes, brittle and ductile deformation mechanisms, earthquakes and seismic waves, and solid Earth properties."	EEGS	3	One GEOL course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 235L	Tectonics and Earth Structure Lab	Required corequisite of GEOL 235.	EEGS	1				
GEOL 260	Volcanology	"Our fascination with volcanoes stems primarily from their awesome powers of destruction, yet their constructive role in shaping our landscape, atmosphere, and oceans has been crucial in Earth's history. This course explores the fundamental concepts of volcanology, from the geological, chemical, and physical processes that generate volcanoes to the implications of volcanic activity on humankind. Through case studies, this course examines the tectonic environments that generate volcanoes and what they tell us about Earth's internal processes; eruptive styles and volcanic forms; volcanic rocks; properties and generation of magmas; features of lava and pyroclastic flows; and volcanic hazards, including their prediction and mitigation."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 260L	Volcanology Lab	Required corequisite to GEOL 260.	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 301	Igneous &Metamorphic Petrology	"Deals with the origin and evolution of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Petrology and melting of the mantle are examined, and the origin and differentiation of magmas in different tectonic settings are explored. Metamorphic rocks are examined using mineral assemblages, metamorphic facies, and thermobarometry with the goal of understanding the crustal history of mountain building. These topics are unified by concepts of plate tectonics. May include a weekend field trip."	EEGS	3	GEOL 201 or equivalent		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 301L	Igneous & Meta Petrology Lab	Required corequisite to GEOL 301. Laboratories involve the study of rock suites from classic areas around the world.	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 310	Environmental Economic Geology	"Examines the global distribution of mineral resources, the economic and engineering factors that govern their availability, and the environmental effects of their production and use. Mineral resources to be considered include ferrous and non-ferrous metals, precious metals, and energy fuels. Topics to be explored, in addition to the origin, nature, and geological settings of the world's great mineral deposits, include mineral law, mineral exploration and production, strategic mineral reserves, minerals and human health, and environmental impact of mining and use, and remediation."	EEGS	3	GEOL 190		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	GEOL 202
GEOL 311	Environmental Geophysics	"Near-surface features of the Earth display a stunning variety of structures and compositions. These features give insight in the geology of a region, and can also be important in the fields of environmental studies, engineering, and archaeology. Many subsurface structures are not visible at the surface, but can be illuminated using geophysical measurements and modeling. In this course, students will learn the science behind several geophysical techniques, including gravity surveying, reflection and refraction seismology, GPS monitoring, and electric and magnetic methods. Two weekend field days are required."	EEGS	3	One geology course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	One semester of calculus
GEOL 315	Conservation Paleobiology	"An investigation into how to “put the dead to work” to better understand the responses of species to current and future environmental change. Examines the ecological and evolutionary responses of species to changing environments in the past as preserved in fossil, archeological, and historical records. Because all of these records are incomplete, a primary focus is how incomplete and/or biased sampling can be addressed in paleontological and historical analyses. Additional topics include extinction risk, shifting baselines, environmental proxies, anthropogenic environmental change, and quantitative methods."	EEGS	3	GEOL 215 or prereq override required		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 335	Hydrology and Geomorphology	"The geologic materials nearest the Earth's surface are those that interact with the biosphere, atmosphere, and hydrosphere. This course explores the nature of surficial geologic materials and processes by using geographic information system (GIS) tools and hydrological modeling software. Major topics are landform development, chemical weathering, soil development and quality, and surface and groundwater hydrology."	EEGS	3	One GEOL course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	A previous earth science or geology course is recommended.
GEOL 335L	Hydrology/Geomorphology Lab	Required corequisite to GEOL 335.	EEGS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 370	Geoinformatics	"Focuses on the digital analysis of geologic data. The complexity of natural systems - including geomorphology, plate tectonics, and climate systems - benefit from computer-assisted manipulation of large-scale datasets. Covers application of GIS and Matlab to geologic datasets, access and use of public data sources, digital analysis of large datasets, and modeling of natural geological systems."	EEGS	3	GEOL course numberd 190 or higher		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 403	Geochemistry	"Explores the fundamental chemical principles that govern how our planet came to be what it is today. In particular, focus will be on how to use chemistry as a tool to understand major geological processes, from the formation of the planet to processes that are particularly important to environmental quality, and thus to humans."	EEGS	3	GEOL 201 and CHEM 101		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 411	Isotopes in the Earth Sciences	"The age of the Earth, genesis and growth of continents, global climate change, and the formation of the solar system are all understood primarily through isotope and trace element geochemistry. This course explores how geochemical tracers are used to understand processes in the Earth and solar system that are not possible to observe directly. Methods to be investigated include geochronology, radiogenic isotopes in magmatic systems, stable isotopes as applied to understanding fluids in low- and high-temperature environments, stable isotopes and the paleoclimate record, and the radiogenic and stable isotope cosmochemistry of meteorites and lunar samples. Current research in these fields is a focus."	EEGS	3	GEOL 201 (may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 416	Marine Geology	The course is designed to provide a realistic understanding of rapidly evolving concepts in the field of geological oceanography. Sedimentary and geophysical data are discussed in the context of global plate tectonics. These data are used to examine the processes responsible for the origin and evolution of continental margins and ocean basins and to reconstruct global climate history.	EEGS	3	GEOL 225		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 420	Solid Earth Processes	"Explores the newest theories in geology: mantle plumes – what they are, how they evolve, and how to detect them using geochemistry, geophysics, modeling, and other methods. There's been a push in the past few years with some scientists calling the mantle plume theory ""a hoax perpetrated on the scientific community."" A fascinating controversy and a rare opportunity to see a theory being refined at a rapid pace. During the fall 2018 semester, several experts in mantle plume research will “visit” via videoconference. Prior to each videoconference, students read relevant scientific papers, including those written by the speaker, so students are fully prepared to engage. During the videoconferences, students ask questions and discuss concepts with the speakers. Following each presentation, students use concepts from the videoconferences to design research proposals to advance understanding of mantle plumes. In addition to understanding one of the newest theories in geology, students become comfortable with initiating new ideas, discussing them, and integrating them with current scientific research. This is a chance to build scientific confidence through discussions, debates, and posing scientific questions. Catalogue course description: Focuses on how the Earth's processes such as volcanism, plate motion, and mantle dynamics are studied by geologists. Through a seminar-style approach, students consider the techniques used to understand the solid Earth, with emphasis on volcanic and plate tectonic systems. Methods studied include (a) volcanic systems: gas, plume, and thermal monitoring for prediction of eruptions, lava chemistry, heat flow, geochronology, field observations, and lava flow dynamics; (b) plate tectonics: earthquake observations, ground deformation, and gravity; (c) planetary geology: remote sensing, spectroscopy, and plume sampling. Each technique is examined in the context of a specific case study (e.g., Mount Pinatubo, Hawaii, Yellowstone, Los Angeles fault zones, Venus, and the moons of Jupiter) through readings and discussions of current geological literature. Experts currently working in the field are often consulted as resources."	EEGS	3	At least two GEOL courses 200-level or above		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 441	Senior Research Seminar	"Students engaged in senior or honors research are required to register for this course designed to guide them in the proper preparation of a research paper or honors thesis. Students are instructed in research techniques, including library research, statistical analysis, and other approaches commonly used in the geosciences. Other matters addressed in this seminar include the format of the research paper or honors thesis, techniques of scientific writing, and how to prepare an oral presentation."	EEGS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 450	Paleoclimatology	"Earth's climate has fluctuated widely in the past, between warm periods and ice ages, and times of great drought versus wetter intervals. The planet currently faces abrupt climate change resulting from human-induced environmental modification. Paleoclimatology, the study of past climates and environments of the Earth, provides a long-term perspective on the nature of global climate variability that is critical for evaluating the sensitivity of the Earth system to past, present, and future changes. This course provides students with an overview of paleoclimatology by examining the use of proxy records such as marine and lake sediment sequences, ice cores, tree rings, corals, and historical data to reconstruct past climatic conditions. Dating methods are introduced, and seminal publications in paleoclimatology are reviewed in tandem with current research papers addressing outstanding questions in paleoclimatology. Throughout, students critically analyze their current understanding of past climates and environments, and identify promising directions for future research. Topics include abrupt climate change, human evolution and climate, biosphere-climate interactions, and paleoclimate modeling."	EEGS	3	GEOL 215 or GEOL 225		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
GEOL 591	Oceanography & Environment		EEGS	3				
GERM 121	Beginning German I	"Introduces students to the basic structures of German and focuses on the four language skills of understanding, speaking, reading, and writing German in cultural, functional contexts. The courses simultaneously introduce students to the vibrant societies and cultures of German-speaking Europe."	GERM	3			Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 122	Beginning German II	"Continued introduction to the basic structures of German and focuses on the four language skills of understanding, speaking, reading, and writing German in cultural, functional contexts. The courses simultaneously introduce students to the vibrant societies and cultures of German-speaking Europe."	GERM	3	GERM 121 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 201	Intermediate German I	"Completes the presentation of basic structures of German and helps students develop greater facility and sophistication in using these structures, in comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Continues the exploration of German cultures begun on the 100 level with a focus on Germany in Europe."	GERM	3	GERM 122 or equivalent	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 202	Intermediate German II	"Completes the presentation of basic structures of German and helps students develop greater facility and sophistication in using these structures, in comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Continues the exploration of German cultures begun on the 100 level with a focus on Germanophone Europe.."	GERM	3	GERM 201 or equivalent	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 202Z	Intermediate German II		GERM	3				
GERM 325	Transnatl-Contemp German Cult	"As demographic changes in Europe unmoor conventional conceptions of national culture, the discourse of transnationalism has emerged to address contemporary political and cultural phenomena no longer confined to the stages of nation-states. Abreast such developments, this course explores the transnational imagination at work in recent Germanophone cultural production, with a focus on cinematic and literary negotiations of German and European identity since 1989. Factors contributing to these negotiations include the tenuous legacy of German unification, the fragile consolidation of the European Union, and the ongoing migration of people to German-speaking Europe from non-European backgrounds. The course's method of inquiry is multidisciplinary, addressing contemporary films and literary writings in conjunction with cultural history and social and political theory. To address the aesthetic qualities of transnational cinema and literature, students familiarize themselves with the terminology and methodologies of film and literary studies in German."	GERM	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	FMST 200 is desirable but not required
GERM 325L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to GERM 325.	GERM	0				
GERM 326	Germany and the Environmental Imagination	"Germany is widely recognized as a global leader in environmental policy and green technology. To what extent does Germany's role as a pioneer in the global environmental movement have its roots in German culture? Building on interdisciplinary scholarship in the growing field of environmental humanities, this course offers an introduction to environmental thought in German literature, culture, and the arts from the 18th-century to the present. The goal of the course is to develop an ecocritical model of reading, focusing on the way literature and other artworks stage the encounter between people and nature in a range of different genres: fairy tales, prose, poetry, landscape painting, and film. Tracing the emergence of the German environmental imagination in key texts from German literature, art, and film, the course also examines the emergence of the modern environmental movement in Germany, and explores how literature and the arts contribute to contemporary debates about environmental justice, species extinction, and sustainability. Course taught in English with an optional CLAC section in German."	GERM	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 326X	Germany & Environ Imagin/CLAC		GERM	1				
GERM 327	Reinventing Berlin	"Berlin has long been considered the quintessential modern metropolis and one that continually reinvents itself as an ongoing experiment in urban culture. Today, the capital of united Germany's ""Berlin Republic"" is a vibrant, ethnically diverse city with political and cultural meanings that resonate far beyond its borders. Students approach contemporary Berlin by way of historical, political and cultural stories of its urban landscape. Through study of monuments, architecture and city planning, film, art and literature, eyewitness reporting and historical analysis, students explore re­inventions of the city and the transformations of its urban space and public culture in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries. In doing do, the changing conceptualizations of civic and national identity, collective memory and imagined futures elicited by Berlin's complex history are also addressed. Participation in the accompanying FLAC section is mandatory for students wishing to earn GERM major/minor credit."	GERM	3			Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 327R	SRS: Research & Prep		GERM	1				
GERM 327X	Reinventing Berlin/FLAC		GERM	0				
GERM 351	Introduction to German Literary Studies	"Introduces students to a variety of German literary texts from the 18th century to the present, in their cultural and historical contexts. Through its exploration of topics such as revolution and social change; constructions of gender; national identity; migration and minority experience; and modernity and aesthetic innovation, the course considers the versatile powers of literature to interpret and influence personal and collective experience. The course also serves as a workshop in which to develop techniques and vocabulary of literary and cultural analysis. In addition to furthering critical understanding of German literature as part of living culture, this course will help students strengthen and expand German language skills in all four areas: reading, writing, comprehension and speaking. Taught in German."	GERM	3	GERM 202 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 352	Intro to German Literature II	"Develops critical and analytical skills through a program of selected readings in German literature of the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries in their cultural and historical contexts."	GERM	3	GERM 202 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 353	Proseminar in German Studies	"Introduces students to the academic study of German by exploring key topics and foundational methods of the discipline, while further developing advanced German language competencies. Deepening students' familiarity with Germanophone Europe, the course adopts a multimedia approach to German studies (print, visual art, stage, radio and film) to advance cultural and transcultural literacy. The focus of the course depends on the instructor, who may emphasize the relationship between crisis and critique in the history of Germanophone Europe; the gray zones between the past and the present, the living and the dead in studies of ghosts and the uncanny; or the borderlands of European multiculture. Taught in German."	GERM	3	GERM 202 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 353L	Proseminar Film Screening		GERM	0				
GERM 461	Goethe	"Introduces Goethe's writing and thought through selected plays, narrative fiction, critical writings, and poems. Topics include Goethe's interest and influence in various cultural spheres, such as the visual arts, the scientific fields of his time, and politics in the age of revolutions. Students explore his comparative approach to world languages and literatures, his changing aesthetic positions during his lifetime, and his literary explorations of gender and love. The seminar interprets Goethe in the context of his time and also examines his dominant and debated position in the German cultural tradition."	GERM	3	Two GERM 300-level courses		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 463	Contemporary Jewish German Literature	"What does it mean to write in German as a Jew today? A diverse group of contemporary German-language authors position themselves as Jewish writers engaged in probing the complex constellations of identity and intergenerational trauma and memory after the Shoah. Much of their work is centered on the Jewish experience in German and Austrian cultures, yet always in a web of relations to other places, their contexts, and languages - for example, Israel and the US, France and Algeria, Russia and Poland. Seismic shifts in national borders and transnational mobility, including German unification in 1990, the immigration of many Jews from the former Soviet Union to Germany and more recent demographic influences of migration of the 21st century, are further reshaping the topographies of intersectional identities and society that these writers explore. Students examine the relationships of generational position, gender, and literary voice; the interfaces of personal stories, historical knowledge, and contemporary local contexts; the politics and collective understandings of the memory of the Shoah; and the roles of literary representations in shaping that memory as time passes and personal memory disappears. Readings include fiction, essays, interviews, songs, and articles by Wolf Biermann, Ruth Beckermann, Maxim Biller, Irene Dische, Olga Grjasnowa, Lena Gorelik, Barbara Honigmann, Wladimir Kaminer, Ruth Kliiger, Katja Petrowskaja, Doron Rabinovici, Robert Schindel and others. May be taught in English translation or in German, depending on the semester and student interests and background. When the course is taught in English, students counting it for German major or minor requirements must also register for the additional (.25 credit) FLAC section (GERM 463X) and do readings and written work in German; students registered for the course as JWST may also join the FLAC course, with instructor permission."	GERM	3			Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 467	Körper-Kino & Kino-Körper: Body Cinema & Cinematic Bodies	"The seminar presents a history of German and German speaking film with special focus to the depiction of the human body. Spanning a period of almost a century (1929 – 2019), the material assembles cinematic traditions across epochs: from Weimar cinema’s last years of silent film, via post war Austrian filmic activism, various cinematic traditions from East and West Germany, all the way up to the present, the Berlin School and transnational European Cinema. Assembling a number of filmmakers with an emphasis on German/European traditions, the course revisits the filmic canon and introduces filmmakers from outside film studies’ canonical scope. Established auteurs such as Werner Herzog or VALIE EXPORT are juxtaposed and paired with lesser-known artists such as Heiner Carow or Mara Mattuschka, and newcomers such as Jan Soldat or Pia Hellenthal, to convey the diversity within film’s and filmmakers’ exploration of the human body. As the thematic vector brings together auteurs of entirely different traditions, it also draws attention to filmic genres often neglected by academics, such as anime, music videos, pornography or short films. “Kinokörper” or “cinematic bodies”, become significant by means of their actions, they take shape in the disciplining of their representation, and fulfil different functions for the genres they traverse. The unsettling effect cinematic bodies have on filmic genre distinctions – such as those between fiction and report, between pornography and its documentation, between scripted narrative and spontaneous improvisation – will be of particular interest. The seminar is conducted in German."	GERM	3	Two 300-level German courses or permission of instructor		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 467L	Required Film Screening		GERM	0				
GERM 477	Literature at the Turn of the Century	"At the dawn of the 20th-century, central Europeans lived, debated, and created amidst great doubts that their world had any future. At the heart of a conflicted and paradoxical modernity arose a keen sense of the unreality and futility of human affairs. Yet modernity’s seemingly unresolvable challenges—including questions about the political arrangements of diverse and multilingual societies, the constitution of the human psyche, the chances of human survival on the eve of World War I, as well as class, inter-ethnic and gender relations—spawned a furor of pioneering responses in the urban centers of Germanophone Europe. Exploring the resources of this rich period (1890-1924), this course investigates the cultural, literary, philosophical, artistic, and musical activity abounding in Vienna, Prague, and other sites of central European modernity. Readings include works by Zweig, Roth, Hofmannsthal, Schnitzler, Freud, Musil, Kraus, V. Canetti, and Kafka. Focus on reading and writing about central Europe will be supplemented by visual works of art, architecture and cinema relevant to the period."	GERM	3	Two GERM 300-level courses		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 479	Twentieth-Century Literature	"Examines the literature and cultures of German-speaking Europe in the 20th century. Because of the wealth of the material, selections vary from semester to semester. Areas of focus may include: the Weimar Republic, exilic literature by émigrés of National Socialism, comparative approaches to West and East German literature, confronting the Holocaust, Austrian and Swiss writers, migration and transnationalism, and the literature of German unification and the Berlin Republic."	GERM	3	Two GERM 300-level courses		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 481	Lyric Poetry	"A survey of selected examples of German poetry from the Baroque period to the present. Poems are examined with an eye to developments in form and to poetry's engagement with the changing world in which it is created, from the Thirty Years’ War to the European Union."	GERM	3	GERM 351 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 482	The Novella and the Village: Modern Tales from the Country: Dorfgeschichte	"Examining a unique German form from Goethe to the present, students explore the narrative forms of the novella and the short novel in the context of increasing urbanization in German-speaking lands, with a focus on the 19th-century."	GERM	3	Two GERM 300-level courses		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 485	Drama	"Examines the history, theory, and practice of German drama with a focus on a selection of major dramatic works from the 18th century to the present. As theater continues to thrive as a unique aesthetic and social institution of German-speaking Europe, students conduct a performance-oriented study of theater as a medium of cultural and transcultural communication. Canonical playwrights to be studied may include Lessing, Schiller, Goethe, Kleist, Büchner, Nestroy, Ibsen, Brecht, Soyfer, Peter Weiss, or Heiner Müller. Contemporary playwrights may include Sibylle Berg, Nurkan Erpulat, Elfriede Jelinek, Dea Loher, Falk Richter, Yael Ronen or Roland Schimmelpfennig. Investigating the genres of the bürgerliches Trauerspiel, the Volksstück, epic theater, postdrama, and postmigratory theater, students also undertake experiments in drama pedagogy."	GERM	3	Two GERM 300-level courses		Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 485L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to GERM 485.	GERM	0			Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 486	German World Literature	"What is German World Literature? This question highlights the relationship between the idea of a national literary tradition and a broader concept of literature that crosses linguistic, cultural, or national boundaries. This seminar focuses on theories of ""world literature/s"" and on primary literary texts written in German as examples of works that circulate through and reflect multiple cultural and linguistic contexts. How are the Grimm fairy tales mediated by Disney? What do we understand by the term ""Kafkaesque""? Why did Goethe emulate the Persian poet Hafis? Do Senoçak’s readers in America contribute to a new idea of German or German-Turkish literature? Topics include the roles of translation, migration, economic and media globalization, nationalisms, and contemporary and historical transnational identities in shaping world literature written originally in German. This course is taught in German, and all written work is to be completed in German."	GERM	3	Two GERM 300-level courses	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
GERM 490	Honors: Women in Drama	"Devoted to the honors project, this course must be taken in addition to the eight courses required for the major. Although it is a year-long course, students register for it once, in the spring semester of the senior year. See ""Honors and High Honors,"" on department page."	GERM	3			Human Thought and Expression	
GPEH 100	Intro Global Pub&Enviro Health	"Introduces students to critical global health issues and ways to address or solve them. The curriculum focuses on the following global health topics: infectious and chronic diseases, maternal/child health, immigrant and refugee health, the relationship between political and cultural processes and health, factors contributing to disparate health outcomes in population groups and how to measure those outcomes. The course is divided into two parts. The first emphasizes the distribution and determinants of disease causation in global contexts utilizing skills and methods in the discipline of global health. The second examines some of the most pressing contemporary global health concerns and contextualizes those concerns in cross-cultural and historical knowledge."	ENST	3		Global Engagements		
GREK 121	Elementary Classical Greek I	"The first semester of an introductory study of the elements of the Greek language. A thorough and methodical approach to the basics is supplemented, as students progress, by selected readings of works by ancient authors."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 122	Elementary Classical Greek II	"The second semester of an introductory study of the elements of the Greek language. A thorough and methodical approach to the basics is supplemented, as students progress, by selected readings of works by ancient authors."	CLAS	3	GREK 121	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 201	Intermediate Greek: Prose	"This intermediate-level course in the Greek language focuses on advanced grammar and syntax and on reading selections from a range of authors, e.g., Plato, Herodotus, Xenophon. Students increase their familiarity with Greek style while devoting attention to literary, historical, or philosophical analysis."	CLAS	3	GREK 122 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 202	Intermediate Greek:Poetry	"An intermediate-level course in the Greek language with readings from one of the following poets: Sophocles, Homer, Euripides. Students increase their knowledge of Greek grammar and style and of the basic literary and technical aspects of Greek poetry."	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 301	Greek Tragedy	"Close reading and study of one or more plays from the works of Aeschylus, Sophocles, or Euripides. This course is designed to give students a wider appreciation of the genre of Greek tragedy as well as to increase their philological skills."	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or GREK 202 or GREK 302 or GREK 310 or GREK 320 or GREK 321 or GREK 350		Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 302	Aristophanes	"Studies at least one play of the Athenian comic poet Aristophanes. Particular attention is paid to the relationship between the comedies of Aristophanes and Athenian tragedy, the language of Aristophanic comedy, and the social and political background of his works."	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 310	Homer	"Close reading and study of selections from the Iliad or the Odyssey. Students, in addition to mastering the epic language, acquire a clearer sense of the place of the epics in Greek literary history."	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 320	Herodotus	"Close reading and study of selections from the Histories of Herodotus, the so-called father of history. This course introduces students to the study of Greek historiography and the nature of Herodotean history."	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or higher	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 321	Thucydides	"Close reading and study of selections from the History of the Peloponnesian War of Thucydides, an astute political and historical analysis of the great conflict between Athens and Sparta that ended with the defeat of Athens. This course pays particular attention to the complex language of Thucydides and to his historiographical principles."	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
GREK 350	Plato	Translation and close study of selected dialogues of Plato. This course focuses on the importance of Plato's Greek and the dialogues' structure to the philosophical arguments of each work.	CLAS	3	GREK 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
HEBR 121	Elementary Hebrew I	Teach modern Hebrew as spoken in Israel and are designed for students who are interested in developing oral and written Hebrew skills. The course is helpful to those who are interested in deeper knowledge of Jewish culture and wish to improve their knowledge of Hebrew for religious studies. Designed for students with no previous Hebrew background and students who have learned to read phonetically without comprehension.	MELL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
HEBR 122	Elementary Hebrew II	Teach modern Hebrew as spoken in Israel and are designed for students who are interested in developing oral and written Hebrew skills. The course is helpful to those who are interested in deeper knowledge of Jewish culture and wish to improve their knowledge of Hebrew for religious studies. Designed for students who have completed HEBR 121 or have equivalent knowledge.	MELL	3	HEBR 121		Human Thought and Expression	
HEBR 201	Intermediate Hebrew I	"Continuing course for students who have completed HEBR 122 and for students with equivalent or advanced knowledge of modern Hebrew. These courses aim at enhancing the students' reading, writing, comprehension, and speaking skills and involve extensive teaching of grammar. Instruction tools include audiovisual materials, popular texts, Israeli newspapers, and exercises in the language laboratory."	MELL	3	HEBR 122		Human Thought and Expression	
HEBR 202	Intermediate Hebrew II	"Continuing course for students who have completed HEBR 201 and for students with equivalent or advanced knowledge of modern Hebrew. These courses aim at enhancing the students' reading, writing, comprehension, and speaking skills and involve extensive teaching of grammar. Instruction tools include audiovisual materials, popular texts, Israeli newspapers, and exercises in the language laboratory."	MELL	3	HEBR 201 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
HIST 102	Europe in Crisis Since 1815 (EU)	"Explores the social, economic, political, and cultural history of Europe over the last two centuries. Topics include the revolutions of 1848, nationalism and the unification of Italy and Germany, the Industrial Revolution and the growth of socialism, imperialism and the alliance system, the Russian Revolution and the two World Wars, Stalinism and the fall of the Soviet Empire after 1989, and the development of the European Union. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 103	American History to 1877	"A broad survey of key patterns, events, and the history of peoples in America from ca. 1500 to 1877. Covers the breadth of Native American life and the effects of European settlement, the colonial and constitutional periods through the age of reform, the crisis of union, and the Civil War and Reconstruction. Prepares students for upper-level courses in early American history. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 104	The United States since 1877 (US)	"A survey of United States history from the era of Reconstruction to the present. Topics include post-Reconstruction racial retrenchment in the South; immigration; the rise of industrialism and the response to it by farmers and workers; Populism and Progressivism; women's suffrage and the modern women's movement; the World Wars, the Cold War, Korea, and Vietnam; the New Deal and public policy; the cultural convulsions of the 1920s and 1960s; the victories and frustrations of the Civil Rights movement; and the post-Cold War period. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 105	Introduction to the Modern Middle East (ME)	"This is a beginning course for study of the Middle East region, and a nuts-and-bolts primer on understanding the background for current events. Students learn the political, geographical, and social/ethnic borders that divide the region and the distribution of languages and faiths across it. The historical content of the course is a survey, with emphasis on the 20th century. No prior knowledge of the Middle East is assumed. (ME)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 106	The Making of Modern Africa (AF)	Surveys the history of Africa from the1880s to the contemporary period. Major themes will include: the imperial scramble and partition of Africa; African resistances; colonial rule in Africa; independence and problems of independence; socio-economic developments in independent Africa; ethnic conflicts; crises and contemporary issues. (AF)	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 110	Intro to Cultural History	"An introduction to the ways of looking at the past that differ substantially from those encountered in most high school history courses. Cultural history investigates the many different ways in which diverse peoples in the past have understood themselves, their societies, and their surroundings. It concerns itself with the lives of ordinary people, asking not only what they did, but how they thought about what they did. This course invites students to delve deeply into the cultural practices and ideas of past individuals through a series of case studies from widely disparate times and places. It introduces students to the methods of cultural history and to the historical discipline more generally through readings and analyses of primary sources alongside critical and synthetic approaches to important secondary literature. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 112	The History of Technology (US)	"Examines the histories of technologies central to life in the last century. Investigating such technologies - office buildings, refrigerators, prisons, the internet, or drones - helps us better understand the politics, economics, and culture of the societies that adopt them. Their study allows us to explore major social processes like urbanization and the effects of major events like the war on terrorism, while thinking about how environment, race, class, gender, and sexuality shape modern life. People often talk about all the ways that technologies transform lives and communities-they sometimes claim that technology drives history. This course, in contrast, introduces students to the study of history and helps them discover the extent to which history actually drives technology. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 114	History of Hudson	Introduces students to Hudson's rich and diverse history as they learn to navigate the university archives; gain hands-on experience with primary sources; and learn the basics of researching and creating digital history. Students will also learn how historians document under-represented groups and wrestle with how best to commemorate both the happy and the controversial aspects of a university's history. (US)	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 120	Introduction to Museum Studies (TR)	"Introduces students to the rich interdisciplinary array of historical, theoretical, and practical topics that comprise this fast-growing field. Major themes include the history of museums from cabinets of curiosity to the Museum of Modern Art; the post-colonial critique of museums; and the practical aspects of museum management, education, and curating. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 199	History Workshop	"Trains students in historical methods by focusing on research, writing, and communication skills. Students learn to understand historiographical debates, assemble and assess bibliographies, find and interpret primary sources, construct effective written arguments, cite sources correctly, and develop appropriate oral communication skills. Depending on the instructor, the course may also include the use of non-traditional sources such as film or material culture, as well as the interpretation of historic sites, monuments, and landscapes."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	Intended for history majors; should be completed by the end of sophomore year.
HIST 202	"Europe in the Middle Ages, c. 300 - 1500 (EU)"	"The Middle Ages were a period of enormous transformation and creativity in Europe. This course examines the emergence of medieval civilization from the ruins of the ancient world and the subsequent evolution of that civilization into modern Europe. Themes to be covered include the fall of Rome, the spread of Christianity and the conflicts within the medieval church, the rise and fall of Byzantium, the challenge of Islam and the crusades, the Vikings, the development of the medieval economy, the feudal revolution, the 12th-century Renaissance, the origins of law and government, the effects of the Black Death, and the Italian Renaissance. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 203	Age of the American Revolution (US)	"Covers the age of the American Revolution, beginning with the Stamp Act Riots in 1765 and ending with the onset of the American Civil War in 1860. Topics include the pre-Revolutionary debates and turmoil, the war itself, popular post-war government, and the construction of the Constitution. From there, students survey the first presidential elections, the building of a federal government, and the expansion of the United States to the Mississippi River. Includes ample discussion of slavery and freedom, Forced Native American exile, violence in American society and the Women’s Movement. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 206	The Civil War Era (US)	"An examination of American society and politics from the Age of Jackson to the end of Reconstruction, directing its prime attention to the Civil War as the great crisis of national unity and a pivotal event in US race relations. Topics range from the underlying causes of the conflict and the political events that led to war, to the bloody battles and emancipation policies that determined its outcome, culminating in the postwar struggles over racial equality. Through lectures, readings, discussions, and written and oral presentations, students will be challenged to develop persuasive interpretations of the era and to evaluate Civil War-related narratives that endure in the public sphere."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 209	"The Atlantic World, 1492 - 1800 (LAC)"	"The events that followed Columbus' accidental arrival in the New World in 1492 shaped the world in which we live today. This course explores the formation of the Atlantic communities as the result of interactions between European, African, and Native American peoples as well as the circulation of diseases, natural products, labor systems, imperial designs, economic policies, and frontier zones in the Atlantic world. Many of the consequences of this process of interaction were unintended. Students explore the configuration of European, African, and Native American societies before contact and the configuration of new communities in the New World; the slave trade and the establishment of the plantation complex from Brazil to South Carolina; the spread of Christianity in the New World; the development of scientific practices in the service of imperial and national states; the establishment of labor systems; and the different strategies of accommodation, resistance, and rebellion of the different actors trying to find/protect their place in the Atlantic world. This course intends to provide a regional framework for the study of colonial societies in the western hemisphere as well as for the study of emerging empires and states in Europe. (LAC)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 210	"The History of Health, Disease and Empire (TR)"	"A comparative approach to exploring issues of disease, health, and medicine in the context of European imperial projects around the globe. Focusing on the late 17th through the early 20th centuries, the course traces how global empires facilitated environmental changes and exchanges, as well as the spread of diseases across distant sites. Students will study the shifting understanding of disease and health, as well as health disparities between enslaved and colonized populations and colonizers. These disparities had far-reaching geopolitical, economic, and social ramifications, including major influences on ideas of race and human difference. Students will gain an understanding of how practices of medicine and public health developed in imperial contexts as contested techniques of governance. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 211	Women's Rights in US History	"Examines the social and cultural history of women in the United States from the Revolutionary era to the present day, tracing feminist ideas from the margins of democratic thought to the center of modern political discourse and culture. Students will explore how issues including race, class, region, religion, work, education, and generational differences have shaped women's lives and maintained gendered order in American society and how, in turn, women have shaped their lives in response to these issues, opportunities, and constraints. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 213	Women in the City (US)	"How has gender been negotiated in the confined space of the city? Focusing primarily on the rich histories of New York and Chicago, and other U.S. cities, this course considers how urban life for women and men diverged, and how it met, from the early 19th century, through the post-WWII “urban crisis” and women’s liberation movements, to the present day. Students will examine historical arguments about the construction of gendered identities, paying particular attention to divisions of race, class, sexuality, and religion. Throughout the course, students will interrogate their own personal geographies, as well as those inhabited by our historical subjects. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 214	American Cultural and Intellectual History (US)	"Surveys some of the most important conversations in the history of the United States. Explores: America's providential destiny, slavery, and the roots of ""liberty;"" the problem of maintaining a democratic society built on the wealth and inequality generated by capitalism; the making of a modern nation and the nature of nations; the multiplication of ""experts"" ready to help us live our increasingly bureaucratized lives; and late 20th-century debates about justice and identity. Students read and write extensively using primary sources and learn to read other cultural artifacts from the American past. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 216	"US Foreign Policy, 1917-Pres"	"U.S. foreign relations from the entry into the Great War to the present. Topics include the unquiet ""normalcy"" of the 1920s, origins of U.S. participation in the Second World War, the atomic bombs, the Cold War, the Korean and Vietnam Wars, arms control, the end of the Cold War, and the new world of terrorism and conflict. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 218	African Amer Struggle-Freedom	"Surveys the presence of African Americans in the United States and their struggle for freedom under the concept of democracy. Examines African origins, the Middle Passage, the creation of an African American culture in slavery, the Civil War and Reconstruction, the growth of black communities in the face of hostility, the African American impact on American culture, the Civil Rights movement, and the continuing struggle by African Americans to make democracy real. (US)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 219	Oceanic Histories (TR)	"It may seem self-evident that oceans have histories, that far from being timeless, they constantly change. Nonetheless, this is a relatively recent idea. This course takes this idea as its starting point, and in doing so explores oceans and coastal areas as more than simply spaces, but as complex historical entities. Marine environmental history will provide the main framework for the course, although maritime history and oceanic studies concepts--such as Atlantic and Pacific Worlds--will also feature prominently. The course gives particular attention to the period of increasing globalization and drastically intensifying human exploitation of the oceans since roughly the fifteenth century. It also, however, considers pre-modern, pre-industrial relations between humans, oceans, and marine environments, suggesting their mutual influences long before the period usually associated with major human effects on the environment. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 222	US Immigration History (US)	"An examination of the history of immigration and migration in the United States; we will not only consider movements across national borders, but we will also take up the more expansive history of movements – both free and coerced – across all kinds of space. We will center our examination on the 1860s to the present, the period in which the demarcation and policing of national borders came to define what it meant to be a “modern” nation state. Just as we will consider the rise and solidification of efforts to police borders, we will also consider the entangled lives and relationships that were built across and in the space between borders. As we consider the United States’ history as both a nation of immigrants and a gatekeeping nation, the categories of race, gender, sexuality, and class will be at the center of our interrogation."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 223	The American West (US)	"The American West is many things: it is a vast geographic region defined by awe-inspiring landscapes; it is an ancient homeland filled with deep political and spiritual meaning; and it is a process, a ""frontier"" that has profoundly shaped the way Americans see themselves and their place in the world. Students examine the history of the West as both a place and a process, with a particular emphasis on issues of settler colonialism, Indigenous sovereignty, environmental change, mythology, and the formation of American identity. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 224	Introduction to Environmental History (TR)	"Explores reciprocal relationships between people and the environment over time. These relationships can be intimate and mundane (mowing a lawn, eating an avocado) or much grander in scale (testing nuclear weapons, creating a national park); they are also connected to global processes of colonialism and industrial development. Focusing on the modern period, students investigate how a wide range of people around the globe—from indigenous peoples to plantation workers to suburban families-have used, transformed, and made sense of their environments over time. This history is also considered for its relevance to contemporary environmental politics and activism. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 225	Jamaica:Colony to Independence	"Surveys the history of Jamaica from 1655 when the British took possession of the island through political independence in 1962, to the present. Examines the growth of Jamaica to become Britain's most prosperous colony during the 18th century based on an export sugar-based, slave-driven economy; the social and political consequences of its dependence on slavery; the economic effects of slave abolition and free trade during the 19th century; social and political developments after emancipation; the growth of black nationalism and decolonization; and post/neo-colonial developments. (LAC)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 227	Civil Rights & Civil Fights: The History of the Long Civil Rights Movement in the United States (US)	"Designed as a historical and interdisciplinary course that provides a deep and thorough examination of the “long civil rights movement” among African Americans and their allies during the 20th and early 21st century United States, with attention to the structure of racial inequality, movement philosophies and strategies, white allies and opponents, relationships to other freedom movements, and the movement’s historical legacies with the Black Lives Matter Movement and #SayHerName."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 228	Caribbean-Conquest/Colonialism	"Surveys Caribbean history from European conquest and colonization to political independence. It introduces students to the salient features of the region's history from indigenous societies and their destruction by Europian invaders and the indigenous peoples; through the rise of plantations and African slavery, the struggles for freedom, post-slavery social and economic developments; to the rise of nationalism leading to political self-determination, and the new American imperialism. (LAC)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 229	Latin American Migrations (LAC)	"Explores the history of migration in the Americas, focusing on mobility to and within Latin America. In addition to discussion on Latin American immigration to the United States, emphasis is on significant but little-known trajectories, such as those linking East Asia and the Middle East to Latin America. Illustrates how mobility to and from Latin America has crucially shaped the region's history, exploring both what has attracted migrants to the region and what structural forces have influenced Latin Americans' choices to leave. Includes several weeks of inquiry into present-day migration in Latin America which students connect with their newfound knowledge of historical migration realities. (LAC)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 231	Resistance & Revolt-Latin Amer	"Examines a broad range of revolts and revolutionary movements in Latin America, beginning in the colonial period and focusing on the 20th century. Some of these successfully overthrew ruling regimes; others did not but left a lasting mark on the region's history. Also examined are less organized forms of resistance, including sabotage, absenteeism, and riots used by slaves and workers to protest their conditions of life and labor. Case studies include Mexico, Brazil, Cuba, Colombia, and Guatemala. (LAC)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 232	The Crusades	"In 1099, a crusading army sacked Jerusalem, killing Muslims, Jews, and Christians alike. This act of savagery earned the crusade fame in Christian Europe and infamy in the Islamic world, prompting a crusade movement in the West and a military reaction in the East. The forces stirred up by these events also led Western Europe toward the conquest of Spain, Eastern Europe, Greece, and eventually the Americas and beyond. In this course, students study the causes, progress, and results of the Crusades themselves, as well as the new colonial societies that developed in their wake. Students focus on the transformation of four cultures: western Christendom, Judaism, Byzantium, and Islam. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 233	"The French Revolution: Old Regime, Revolution, and Napoleonic Empire, 1770-1815 (EU)"	"An overview of one of the most tumultuous periods in modern European history. France experienced a range of different governments, from absolute monarchy, to the Reign of Terror, to the Napoleonic Empire, a progression that was accompanied by an expansion of the existing war (from 1792 on) into a massive European-wide war. There were serious claims for citizenship and equality from working class men, from women of all classes, and from enslaved and free people of color in France’s colonial empire; there were disturbing acts of violence committed by crowds as well as by the government itself. Designed to introduce students to the major events and personalities and the political evolution of the state during this time, as well as to discuss some of the important historiographical arguments. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 235	African Amer Women's History	"Explores the complex history and experiences of African American women’s lives beginning with their enslavement in the United States through the present day. Students consider issues that African American women have faced in the United States including their fight for freedom, the exploitation of their labor, their practices of leisure, institution building, and social and political activism; family life and love relationships, and their subsequent re-enslavement through the prison industrial complex. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 236	The History of Money (US)	"Surveys the history of money as an economic, political, and cultural resource. Touches on ancient and medieval precedents, but mostly deals with the early modern period and later. Surveys key controversies surrounding money, banking, and finance, particularly in the modern United States, and considers the development of accounting and credit systems alongside the diverse uses and meanings ascribed to cash and other forms of payment. Traces the financialization of late twentieth century and consider the recent development of digital currencies. Employs various approaches to this subject, including the history of economic thought, economic sociology, legal studies, media studies, political history, intellectual and cultural history, and the history of technology. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 237	Empires and Global History:1400-1700 (TR)	"Empires controlled much of the world for much of recorded history. They did much to shape the modern world. Much of what we think about empires is based on Western European examples such as the Portuguese, Spanish, British, French, and Dutch empires of the fifteenth to eighteenth centuries. Students reconsider the formation, operation, and impact of early modern empires through a comparative look at Western European empires and powerful but often ignored East Asian empires. (TR)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 238	Europe in Age Renaiss & Reform	"A survey of early modern European history. It focuses on the Renaissance and the age of expansion and exploration as well as the Reformation and the era of religious wars. The primary areas of focus include the development of the European state system, the emergence of the European economy, and the growing size and scale of warfare. Additional subjects include the witch craze and gender roles, art and patronage, print culture and literacy, popular religions, and the development of the concepts of the self and individual freedom. (GL)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 241	Life and Death in Early Modern Britain (EU)	"In 1485, Henry Tudor became king of England. A second-rate power in Europe, his kingdom had been torn apart by dynastic struggles and civil war. By 1714, when the last of the Stuart monarchs died, everything had changed. England was now part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, which included Scotland and Wales, and whose king also ruled over the neighboring island of Ireland. The medieval feudal kingship had been replaced by a well-established parliamentary monarchy, with many stops along the way. Britain was now a world power, at the center of a far-flung empire, and competing with France for dominance in Europe and beyond. This course will explore precisely how these monumental changes came about, taking a close look at British history over the long 16th and 17th centuries from a number of different perspectives: political, religious, social, cultural, commercial, and intellectual. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 243	Native American History (US)	"Typically, American history is told from the perspective of European colonizers, with the story beginning on the east coast and expanding west across the continent. How does American history look different when we reverse this perspective and put the continent's original people at the center of the story? What has been the experience of America's Indigenous people, both before and after European contact? And why is this history essential for understanding the world we live in today? With these questions in mind, students will examine the history of indigenous peoples in what is now the United States from 1492 to the present day. Particular focus will be placed on Native Americans' history of adaptation and resilience in the face of European and American colonialism. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 245	Russia at War	"Examines five Russian wars fought between 1800 and the present: the Napoleonic wars, the Crimean War, World Wars One and Two, and the current conflict in Ukraine. Russia's modern wars have been particularly (although certainly not uniquely) traumatic, with profound impacts on government and citizen alike. The course examines the ways in which the events leading up to war, wartime conditions, and eyewitness accounts were recorded and internalized by citizens and managed by an autocratic state to create collective historical understandings of events. By analyzing the changing ways in which social hierarchy, gender and exclusivity have been structured during and in the aftermath of war, the course offers an important guide to understanding the emergence of ethno-nationalism in one of the world's largest and longest­lasting multi-ethnic Empires. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 248	Women's Lives/Europe:1500-Pres	"Focuses on the range of experiences of women in Europe, from the Renaissance to the present day. Topics include the experiences of women in the workforce and the family, the witch craze, women and religion, women’s involvement in politics and reform movements, the exercise of state control over women’s bodies, and the changing priorities of feminism and feminist ideologies. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 251	The Politics of History	"While the discipline of history is often approached as a collection of static, undisputed facts, the past is constantly re-interpreted and re-written to suit the needs of those living in the present. Far from being an apolitical exercise or a straightforward empirical investigation, history is contested and hijacked by individuals and groups who seek to use it to advance their interests and promote their agendas. History is not only subject to intense and divisive public debates, it frequently appears at the center of both latent and active inter-group conflicts. Through close readings of key texts and hands-on engagement with contemporary case studies, this course aims to provide an overview of the politics of history. The scope of the course is global, and the methodological approach is multi-disciplinary, spanning such fields as history, political science, public and international affairs, memory studies, museum studies, and peace and conflict studies. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 254	History of Coffee & Cigarettes	"How did Arabian coffee and American tobacco become global vices? How has the use and meaning of these everyday products changed over time? Why are so many people drawn to caffeine and nicotine, and why do they have such a hard time quitting them? This course traces the history of coffee and cigarettes from the 1500s to the present. Readings and discussions range from 16th-century Turkish coffeehouses to 21st-century Starbucks, and from the prohibition by King James I of tobacco to contemporary debates on second-hand smoke. Other historical topics include the discovery and diffusion of coffee and tobacco; the establishment and spread of coffeehouses; early prohibitions on tobacco use; the connections between colonialism and consumer goods; and the medical, economic, and political debates surrounding these products in the 20th century. (GL)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 255	"The Ottoman Empire, 1300 - 1924 (TR)"	"The Ottoman Empire lasted for over six centuries and was one of the last multi-ethnic empires in world history. States that were once part of the empire include Iraq, Israel, Syria, Egypt, Lebanon, Libya, Greece, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Turkey, and Saudi Arabia. Students examine the social, political, and economic life of the Ottoman state from its beginnings among nomadic tribesmen to the fall of the ""Grand Turk"" in World War I. Issues addressed include the organization of structures of control over such a large and heterogeneous population and the maintenance of a relatively high level of integration in society over time. The factors that led to the disintegration of this empire, including nationalism and colonialism, are also examined. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 261	Modern Irish History (EU)	"Few Western European countries have had as turbulent a recent history as Ireland, nor one whose legacy remains as persistent. This course focuses on Ireland's evolution from Britain's oldest colony to a self-governing state, culminating in her current situation as a divided nation whose acute internal tensions sit uneasily within a broader framework of European unity. Although the independence struggle and Anglo-Irish relations in general feature prominently, the course goes beyond the ""national question"" to examine such issues as the growth of Irish culture, images of Irishness at home and abroad, developments in social and economic history, and the complex roots of the conflict in Northern Ireland. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 263	Cities of the Silk Road	"An overview of the cultural and economic relationships that developed across Eurasia from the 1st to the 14th centuries CE. The course focuses on the fabled ""Silk Road,"" overlapping of overland trade routes through Central Asia that connected China and Japan with western Europe. The impact of the Silk Road was as often regional and local as it was intercontinental; most travelers did not cover the whole route but remained in areas that were indigenous to them. The course examines a number of very broad themes, such as the interaction of nomadic and sedentary peoples, the spread of religions, cultural confrontation, and syncretism. The course is a challenging one for both instructor and students in that it covers an enormous geographic, cultural, and chronological span. (TR)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	"This course is a pre-requisite for the extended study ""Oil & Water"" in Uzbekistan."
HIST 264	Modern East Asia (AS)	"Examines the formation of modern East Asia, with particular focus on China, Japan, and Korea. Explores the changing role of empire and nation, indigenous reevaluations of tradition, and finally the shifting political, economic, and military relations among China, Japan, and Korea. Concludes with a look at East Asia's evolving place in the world as a whole. (AS)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 265	War and Violence in East Asia (AS)	"Explores the place of war and violence in East Asian societies from 1200 to 1700. Among the many topics examined are samurai, ninja, martial arts, Ghenghis Khan, and piracy. First, students look at the internal organization of armies, their place in domestic politics and society, and their role in foreign relations. Second, they examine the impact of war on religion, economics, politics, and the arts. Third, because of its importance, violence was tightly linked to religion, literature, and popular theater. Finally, students consider the various ways that these traditions attempted to prevent, control, and manipulate violence through examining political philosophy, law codes, and social mores. (AS)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 269	History of Modern South Asia (AS)	"Surveys the history of South Asian from the expansion of the Mughal Empire in the early modern period and the rise of the British colonial power in the 18th and 19th centuries to the emergences of modern nation states. Students also look at the different political, economic, and cultural trajectories that these nation states, particularly India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, have taken since independence. With the aim of developing a historical perspective to the complex and often paradoxical social, religious, and political identities that the region of South Asia exhibits today, students are introduced to a diverse set of primary sources ranging from Mughal court chronicles, European travel accounts and autobiographies to public speeches and official correspondences. Although this course complements the survey of the ancient and medieval history of South Asia taught in HIST 268, no prior background in South Asian history is required. (AS)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 271	The First World War	"Was the First World War a ""tragic and unnecessary conflict,"" as one of its leading historians has recently suggested? Why did men continue to fight amid horror and misery? And how did total war rend the fabric of society, politics, and everyday life? To answer these and other questions, this course examines the First World War from a variety of perspectives. Attention will be paid to its origins and outbreak, its conduct by generals and common soldiers, its effect on women and workers, and its wide ranging consequences, both on individuals and empires. The course concludes with a discussion of how the First World War has shaped the world in which we live today. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 272	War & Holocaust in Europe	"Focusing on one of the darkest chapters in European history, this course examines the causes, conduct, and consequences of the Second World War and maps the terrible course of the Holocaust. Chronologically, the course begins with Hitler's seizure of power and ends with the collapse of his empire in 1945; thematically, it gives special attention to collaboration and resistance, morale and mobilization, and military and diplomatic turning points. Throughout the course, emphasis is given to the experience of ordinary men and women, whether on the home front or the battle front, in neutral or warring states, in hiding or in the camps. (EU)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 273R	SRS: Research & Reflection		HIST	1				
HIST 275	Modern Jewish History	"This course focuses on the experience of Jews in the modern era, from 1871 with the emancipation of the Jews of Germany to the immediate aftermath of the Second World War and the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. Topics include expulsions and migrations, emancipation and acculturation, anti-Semitism and the Holocaust, modern Jewish nationalism movements such as Zionism, the estabilishment of the State of Israel, and the expansion of American Jewish communities and the reassertion of Jewish life in Europe in the aftermath of the Holocaust. This course is crosslisted as JWST 275."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 281	Slavery and the Slave Trade in Africa (AF)	"Slavery and the slave trade are global phenomena with historical roots in the earliest civilizations. The course examines the long history of slavery and the slave trade in African societies, exploring the role that slavery played in African economic, political, and social life, as well as how the export of human beings as slaves transformed African societies. The course also considers how slaveholders and slaves shaped early African societies, the logic and consequences of African participation in the Atlantic slave trade, the aftermath of abolition in 20th-century colonial Africa, and how coercive forms of labor control have persisted into the 21st century. (AF)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 284	Decolonization in Africa (AF)	"Surveys the history of the growth of anti-colonial nationalism, the end of colonial rule, and post-independence Africa to the contemporary period. It focuses on the comparative analysis of the winning of independence from French, British, Italian, Portuguese, and Belgian colonization. Major themes include African responses to colonial rule, wind of change, independence and problems of independence, pan-African movement, socio-economic developments, cold war, colonial legacies, political systems, and contemporary issues. (AF)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 300	The London Colloquium (EU)	"Taught each fall semester. Limited to students accepted to the London History Study Group the following spring. Has three purposes: first, to introduce students to subject matter to be covered in the instructor's London seminar; second, to get students started on the London-based seminar projects, to be researched and finished under the auspices of HIST 491 in London; and third, to prepare students for life and work in London through study of the city's history and culture. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 302	Global Toxic History (TR)	"Focuses on the themes of contamination, waste, and toxic exposure in the modern world, with the goal of understanding environmental health issues in historical context. What political, economic, and social forces have contributed to the prevalence of contamination? Why have some communities suffered disproportionately? How have people in the past identified and coped with toxic danger, and how have they fought against the contamination of their regions, cities, homes, and bodies? In the face of mounting global challenges of toxicity and contamination today, students consider what lessons might be found in these past struggles. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 304	Sex and Sexualities in U.S. History (US)	"Explores the complex and often hidden histories of sex and sexuality in U.S. history, from the Revolutionary era to the present day. Students will consider how American views of sex, desire, and other intimate matters have changed over time, influencing both private decisions and public policies. Topics to be examined include: the emergence of hetero- and homosexuality as categories of experience and identity; the contested boundaries drawn between sociability, friendship, and romance; experiences of dating and courtship; representations of sex and sexualities in popular culture; the development of women's lib and LGBTQ politics; and the significance of gender, class, racial/ethnic, and generational differences. Students will read broadly in the field to understand the kinds of questions historians are pursuing in this growing area of study. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 305	Asian American History (US)	"Offers an in-depth survey of the history of people of Asian descent from the first arrivals of significant numbers of Asians in American in the mid-19th century to the present, with heavier emphasis on the post-1965 era. In that year, the Hart-Cellar Act lifted earlier restrictions on Asian immigration and initiated substantial migration from the East. Covers significant events and people in Asian American history while examining the course of ordinary individuals through demography, law, family, and cultural history. This history enables students to learn about and analyze issues of tradition/modernity; race, acculturation, and identity politics; culture and the intersection of laws and politics; and multiculturalism. While coverage extends to every Asian nationality present in the United States, emphasis is placed on the largest groups including Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Filipinos, and East Asians. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 306	History of Numbers in America (US)	"Students in this course explore American history by asking how numbers have come to play such a powerful role in shaping American lives. Case studies present the histories of some of American society's most important numbers, including IQ and SAT scores, credit ratings and stock indices, BMI and the calorie, census data and the consumer price index. Students learn the methods of cultural and intellectual history. They develop new conceptual tools for understanding US history, as well as the history of science, business, and the modern state. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 309	Culture and Society in Cold War America (US)	"For more than 40 years, the Cold War cast a long shadow over American culture and society, shaping everything from gender roles to religious practice, from funding for science to the struggle for civil rights. This course explores the impact of the Cold War on the American home front. Topics include American reactions to the atomic bomb, the role of civil defense, McCarthyism, the culture of consumption, and the impact of the Cold War on the family, politics, religion, science, and popular culture. Finally, the course considers the domestic legacy of the early Cold War, asking to what degree it retarded or set the stage for the social movements of the 1960s. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 316	"The US in Vietnam, 1945-1975"	"The origins, progress, and consequences of the U.S. war in Vietnam. The course opens with a chronological overview of the war and U.S. decision making, then examines several key interpretations of American intervention, explores special topics on the war (including antiwar protest and the war as an international event), and concludes with a look at the legacy of the war. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 317	Gender and Nationalism (TR)	"Gender history has made critical interventions into various “big topics” of history, including the study of nation and nationalism. Students study the gendered aspects of nation building and nationalism in the modern world, with case studies of India, Algeria, Iran, and the United States. Students interrogate the constructed nature of both “gender” and “nationalism.” Some of the questions explored include: what is the difference between the nation and nationalism? What roles do gendered subjects play in crafting the nation? Who constitutes the ideal subject of nations? Students engage with different types of sources and consider how to read them effectively as historical materials. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 318	Afric-Amer Hist to Emancipatn	"This is a course in the history of African American people from 1619 to 1865. The emphasis is on the transition from Africa to the New World, the slavery experience, and the transition from slavery to freedom. The ideology of racism, the formation of racial identity within the diaspora, and the importance of African American culture are also studied. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 319	Afric Amer Social Movements	"This is a research-oriented course that examines the history of African American leadership and those social movements that have impacted the black world and the United States in the late 19th, 20th, and 21st centuries. Topics include Reconstruction, the movement to build black communities, the civil rights/black power movements, and the continuing struggle to achieve social justice in the 21st century. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 320	New York City History (US)	"Survey key patterns of development of New York City's society, economy, and culture from colonial through recent history includes contact and syncretistic cultures of Iroquois, Dutch, German, English, and Afro-Americans; impact of New York's post-revolutionary growth; establishment of metropolitan culture and politics; social and political ramifications of New York's transport and trade; rise of ethnic democracy in 19th and 20th centuries; New York's place in national perspective; perspectives for the future. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 327	Dictator/Democr in Caribbean	"Examines the political development of the Caribbean from European occupation and colonization to the present. The imperial and race-based societal foundations of authoritarianism in the Caribbean are studied, as are the popular democratic impulses arising especially since the end of slavery and culminating in self-governing ""democratic"" political regimes. (GL)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 331	"Medieval Italy, c. 1000 - 1500 (EU)"	"Traces the rise of Venice, emerging from nothing at the end of Antiquity to become a great port city, first through its domination of the trade in European slaves, then through a maritime empire that caused it to fight for supremacy in the Eastern Mediterranean and eventually lead a Crusade that would sack the capital of the Roman Empire itself. Its dominance established, Venice became the western end of the trade routes from China. In the thirteenth century, Marco Polo would travel from Venice along these routes and teach Europe about the wider world. Students delve deep into the artistic and architectural treasures of one of the most extraordinary cities on Earth and then voyage outwards to the world."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 332	Medieval England	"Topics in the history of England between the years 600 and 1500. The focus may in a particular semester be the Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms, the Norman Conquest and the origins of English law, or Revolutions and Piety in the later Middle Ages.(EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 333	The Medieval Church	"Studies the development of the theology, institutions, and practice of Christianity in the medieval West. Topics to be covered include the early Church; the rise of the papacy and monasticism; the relationship of Catholicism with Jews, Muslims, and Orthodox Christians; the challenge of heresy; the Investiture Conflict; and the shaping of doctrine and practice. (EU)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 336	History Bodies/Planets/Plants	"This course provides a survey of Western thought about the natural world from the work of ancient philosophers to the work of Isaac Newton. Topics covered include the differences between science and natural philosophy; the role of Plato and Aristotle in the development of Western European natural philosophy; intersections between natural philosophy and technology in ancient Rome and medieval Europe; the growth of the university as a center of natural philosophical study; the role of Atlantic explorations in the development of science; the new cosmologies of the early modern period; and the growth of science, scientific culture, and experimental method. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 337	Pirates in the Atlantic World	"Examines the emergence of piracy and pirates in the Atlantic World. During the early modern period (15th to 18th centuries), violence and robbery at sea became very intense, giving rise to famous figures. In the second half of the 17th century, pirates established a permanent presence in the Caribbean Sea, and their activities in the area are associated with the first Golden Age of Piracy. A second Golden Age dates from 1713 (Treaty of Utrecht) to the 1730s. The British Navy led an intense campaign against piracy in the 18th century and eventually removed pirates from the Caribbean Sea. Students explore the role pirates played in the development of Atlantic empires, colonial American societies, the transatlantic slave trade, and the Atlantic commercial system from the 16th to the 18th centuries, as well as international legal issues and gender issues. (LAC)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 340	20th-Century European Intellectual History (EU)	"At the beginning of the 20th century, European men and women of ideas agreed that the continent was experiencing an unprecedented intellectual crisis, as the optimistic and positivist doctrines of Victorian liberalism began to crumble in the face of radical challenges from left and right alike. This course examines the transformation in European world-views that has occurred during the past 100 years, focusing in particular on such themes as the growth of ""cultural despair,"" the intellectual impact of the Great War, the New Physics, Gramscian and Lukácsian neo-Marxism, second- and third-wave feminism, existentialism, faith after the Holocaust, the generation of 1968, and the ideas of the Frankfurt School. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 343	Formation of Russian Empire	"A study of politics and society in the Russian lands from Kiev to Alexander I. The course focuses especially on the rise of the Muscovite state, its cultural diversity, and its preoccupation with trade, treason, and winning wars; the Petrine reforms and Russia's emergence as a European power; the palace coups; and Catherine II and the Enlightenment. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 345	The New Deal and Modern America (US)	"A survey of the social and political history of the “long New Deal”. The long New Deal refers to the period of United States history from the election of President Roosevelt in 1932 to the election of President Eisenhower in 1952. Across this time period, the people of the United States lived through the crises of economic catastrophe, global war, reconversion from total war, and the Cold War’s beginning. American society then, as now, was divided and stratified along fractures of race, class, gender, sexuality, physical ability, geographic location, and political ideology. The American people did not experience or respond to the crises and transformations of this era in a unitary fashion. Nor did they share a single vision of how the United States government should steer the country through this era of uncertainty and into the future. Our course will examine how, across this prolonged period of crisis, different Americans thought up and fought to implement different configurations of the relationship between citizen, state, and society. In our course we will repeatedly return to the possibilities, limits, unexpected consequences, and contradictions of these varied efforts to reshape American society. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 346	"Germany, Russia, Eastern Europe (EU)"	"Traces the often troubled history of Central and Eastern Europe from the Revolution of 1848 to the fall of the Berlin wall. Topics include the unification of Germany, the collapse of Austria-Hungary, and the emergence of Poland; the two world wars, fascism, and communism; and post-war occupation, division, and dissent. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 350	"Post-War Europe, 1945 to the Present (EU)"	"Studies Europe's changing status in the global community since 1945 and the domestic effects of that change. Topics include the movement toward European Union, the Cold War, decolonization, the rise and fall of Communism, and the emergence of multi-racial Europe. Also explores critiques of material prosperity and consumer culture in the West and the tenacity of nationalism in an era characterized by supra-national ideologies. (EU)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 351	A History of Imperialism in the Modern World (TR)	"The advent of imperialism and colonialism has profoundly shaped the history of the world. Using the theme of empire as a lens into world history, students seek to understand how the modern world has emerged from our imperial pasts, and the role empires played in truly making the world global. Students look at specific case studies from various regions and places in order to trace the linkages between empires and the world systems. Students also look at the rise of industrialization, capitalism, the Atlantic world’s role in integrating many regions, the impact of empires on various economies and peoples, the structuring of the world that gave rise to twenty-first century divisions into the different “Worlds,” and the resonances of imperialism in the post-colonial contexts that continue to shape relations between different parts of the world. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 356	Global Indigenous History	"Indigenous communities exist throughout the world, but rarely is their history approached in global terms. What does ""indigenous"" mean, and how does world history look different when approached from the perspective of indigenous people? How does such an approach change the way we think about our national stories, and why does that matter? With these questions in mind, students explore the history of indigenous peoples from around the world, including communities in the United States, Latin America, Pacific island nations, Canada, and Australia. By examining these diverse people's experiences with outside colonization from the 15th century to the present, students are offered new perspectives on ongoing histories of colonialism, resistance, adaptation, and cultural resilience. (TR)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 358	Conquest & Colony in Americas	"Explores contrasting patterns of colonization the Americas. Traditionally, such comparative studies have focused on the cultural differences among the European colonizers, but here, students pay equal attention to differences among the many indigenous groups that lived in this hemisphere. Rather than treating indigenous peoples as passive players in the political and social struggles of the 16th and 17th centuries, students consider how they actively shaped processes of conquest and colonization. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 360	Borderlands of North America (TR)	"Instead of looking at history from the vantage of national centers, borderlands history focuses on the complicated places where empires, nations, and Indigenous peoples have collided, converged, and overlapped over time. Borderlands were—and continue to be—perplexing places, where national identities and boundaries often held little sway, and where marginalized peoples sought to forge new paths. A focus on borderlands has the power to change our perspective on the history of North America, and to lend insight into the complex politics that define the border up to the present day, including heated debates over migration and the building of border walls. With this in mind, students examine the history of Indigenous, U.S.-Mexican, U.S-Canadian, and imperial borderlands from the 16th through the 21st centuries, including their political, social, and environmental dimensions. (TR)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 365	"Warriors, Emperors and Temples in Japan (AS)"	"Examines three very different kinds of Japanese culture and government during the medieval and early modern periods. Study begins with the transforming influences of continental civilization such as Buddhism, Chinese techniques of government, and state building. Students then look at the ways in which these influences were integrated into Japanese society and trace the emergence of the highly refined court culture during the classical Heian period. Next, students explore the erosion of the central government’s power and the rise of the first warrior government, the Kamakura military government, and the new ethos of the “way of the warrior.” Finally, students examine the fate of the samurai in an age when the arts of peace and administration were more critical than skill with a sword. (AS)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 368	"China, the Great Wall & Beyond"	"Examines key questions in military, cultural, social, and political history in China from 1200 to 1750. In particular, students compare foreign peoples who conquered China, like the Mongols and Manchus, with the last ""native"" dynasties in Chinese history. Students consider styles of rulership, the impact of war and the military on society, developments in intellectual life, and international relations of the most populous country in the world. (AS)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 369	"Modern China, 1750-Present"	"Has a dual focus: China's internal development during this period and its complex interaction with the newly dominant powers of the West and Japan. Begins with the prosperous ""high Qing,"" and then turns to the tumultuous Taiping rebellion of the mid-19th century and the political, military, and social changes it engendered. Then, the Chinese efforts to meet the challenges of the new world order first through a Confucian revival and later through embracing Western technology and ideas are examined. Students trace the development of the Chinese Communist party and the KMT, warlordism, China's involvement in World War II, and the founding of the People's Republic of China. Concludes with a look at the effects of the economic and political reforms of the past two decades. (AS)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 370	The Mongol Empire (TR)	"Traces the origins and impact of the greatest land empire in history. Late in the 12th century, Ghenghis Khan unified the steppe and assembled an awesome military force. During the next decades, the Mongols conquered most of Eurasia. Students examine steppe military traditions, relations between the steppe and the sown, and the establishment of the Mongol empire. Drawing on eyewitness accounts, historical chronicles, art, and modern scholarship, students explore Mongol methods of rulership in the Middle East, East Asia, and Inner Asia and how a century of Mongol domination reshaped world history. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 373	Bollywood and Beyond: India through Cinema (AS)	"Film has quickly become a central media in disseminating history and a shared culture to a wider audience. India, the world’s largest democracy, is also the largest film industry in the world, with studios across the country making movies in over twenty languages. Bollywood, the Hindi-language film industry based in Mumbai (formerly Bombay), is the most popular, producing over 1,000 films a year. Students trace the evolution of Bollywood and the history of modern India through some of the most well-known and critically acclaimed films to have emerged out of India."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 373L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite for HIST 373.	HIST	0				
HIST 374	Jews and Autobiography	"Explores the accounts of individual lives as a means of understanding the past and gauging historical change through time. Students will examine memoirs written from early modem era to the present year, from a gambling rabbi in 11th century Italy to a French Jewish child surviving the Holocaust in hiding to the contemporary reflections of an IDF soldier. Among the questions students will consider are the limitations of memoirs as dependable historical sources and the ability of the individual to participate in and reflect historical processes."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 375	Murder in United States History (US)	"Considers how the definition of murder as a crime has changed from the colonial period to the present day. Uses murder cases to study the dynamics of American society in condemning, condoning, or celebrating murder. Asks how cultural factors, including racial prejudice, gender stereotypes, beliefs about sexuality, and class status affected the act of killing, media coverage of the event, societal reactions, and the execution of justice. Topics covered include abortion, sensational murder, lynching, vigilante justice, and the evolution of the legal system."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 379	U.S. and Africa (AF)	"Examines the history of US-Africa interactions since the 1960s. Following the end of European colonial rule in Africa in the 1960s, the United States stepped in to exert its influence. Newly independent African countries were seen as a great opportunity to promote US economic, political and sociocultural agenda particularly during the Cold War. On the other hand, many African immigrants started to permanently settle in the US following the passage of the 1980 Refugee Act consolidating interactions between the US and Africa. Major themes include: African immigrants & Refugees in the US; Cold War; Public Awareness of African Issues in the US; USAID; Disease Control in Africa; US & Apartheid; War on Extremist Groups; Peace Corps and Humanitarian Interventions. (AF)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 380	Emancipation in Africa	"Examines the transition from slavery to freedom, forced labor during colonial rule, and contemporary forms of slavery in Africa. One of the moral justifications for the European conquest of Africa was the ending of slavery and slave trade. While colonialism led to the demise of the trade, slavery itself continued to exist well to the end of the colonial era. Finding it difficult to organize labor, the colonial authorities used forced labor with no or little compensation and, since independence modern forms of slavery are still practiced in many parts of the continent. Major themes include: abolition laws and emancipation in practice; colonial rule and the slow attack on slavery; plantation labor in East Africa; slavery as an international issue; forced labor, contemporary human trafficking and migrations. (AF)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 381	Pre-Colonial Africa (AF)	"Surveys African history to 1880: its peoples and their environments, early Islamic North Africa, Bantu expansion, early states of the northern savannas, the kingdom of Ethiopia, the impact of medieval Islam, Europe's discovery of Africa and the slave trade, and later European missionary and commercial enterprise. (AF)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 382	Modern Africa (AF)	"This study of Africa from 1880 to the present includes the following topics: European settlement in South Africa and Rhodesia/Zimbabwe; background to the scramble for the rest of Africa; partition by the European powers; British, French, Portuguese, and Belgian colonial regimes; nationalist resistance movements; ""patrimonial"" post-independence regimes and growing resistance to them in the 1990s. (AF)"	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 384	Somalia: Independ to Collapse	"Examines the history of modern Somalia from 1960 to the present. Major themes include the partition of Somaliland, Somali resistance; colonial rule in Somaliland; independence and problems of independence; the Siad Barre government; irredentist claims and wars; the collapse of Somalia; international intervention and aftermath; attempts to form a government, Islamic Courts Union, and al-Shabab fighters; and piracy. (AF)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 385	Darfur in Historical Perspective (AF)	"Examines the history of the Darfur crisis. Topics include the people of Darfur, ethnic relations and conflicts, conquest and colonial legacy, Darfur and the Sudan government, the rebels, responses of the Sudan government and Janjaweed, the war, human rights violations, foreign powers, the challenge of humanitarian intervention, and the future of Darfur. Students explore the responsibilities and opportunities we have, as individuals and as a nation, to respond to the refugee migrations, human rights abuses, and genocides that haunted the 20th century and that are beginning to plague the 21st. Exposes students to historical causes of the crisis and some of the humanitarian challenges facing the world today. Also offers multiple frameworks for thinking about what roles we might play in influencing public policy and having an impact on people in need. Students learn to understand and analyze the crisis that the United Nations called ""the world's worst humanitarian disaster"" and the United States called ""genocide."" (AF)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 386	Mexico and the United States (TR)	"Explores the history of Mexico-U.S. relations in the nineteenth- and twentieth centuries, covering migration, cultural and academic exchange, trade, and diplomacy. What dialogues, encounters, and conflicts have shaped the bilateral relationship over the decades, and what roles have ordinary Mexican and U.S. citizens played in defining that relationship? In what ways has U.S. dominance shaped politics, culture, and economy south of the border, and how has Mexico asserted its sovereignty and influenced the United States? (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 387	Epidemic Histories (TR)	"Epidemics often appear akin to natural disasters in historical accounts, as unpredictable and destructive forces apparently beyond human control. But epidemics are not simply random events that shape and constrain individual people, societies, and institutions. Epidemics are the creations of particular and varied contexts, both human and ecological. Students examine some of the conditions of possibility for historical epidemics, emphasizing social and cultural factors, as well as the variable effects epidemic diseases had on people and societies in the past. Students also consider challenges of writing history in a pandemic, the ways in which the COVID-19 pandemic might influence how we understand historical epidemics, and the extent to which we can draw parallels between past and present."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 388	The American South: From Reconstruction to the Present (US)	"Examines the historical and social changes of the American South from the end of the Civil War throughout the twentieth century. The South, a region left almost destitute following the Civil War, underwent a major transformation which saw enslaved labor replaced with prison labor, industrialization driven by southern progressives who envisioned a “new South” and race relation struggles that would and still do plague the region. Material and visual culture, literature, journalism, music, food, religion, and recreation serve as course materials. Discussions cover a variety of topics including race, class, gender, southern agriculture, Jim Crow, the southern penal system, immigration, the South and the New Deal, southern labor, religion, cultural expressions through jazz, blues, country, and hip-hop, the civil rights movement, Southern conservatism, and voting rights. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 399	Reading Sem:Race & Nationalism	"Seeks to examine the American nation often referred to as a “Nation of Nations,” a “Nation without Borders,” and a country of many peoples. The goal of is to connect students to America’s past and help them to understand what America has been and what it strives to be. As an interdisciplinary course with an anchor in History, explorations of American nationalism and race will use perspectives in class, race, gender and politics to help students understand American History’s depth and complexity."	HIST	3	HIST 199 or HIST 299		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 400	"Sem:Slave,Poltic&Resist/NoAmer"	"[Thematic Seminar: Slavery, Politics and Resistance in North America ] Students study the intertwined histories of American politics and abolitionism during the antebellum period and into the Civil War. Students study key recent texts on American politics, abolitionism, black self emancipation and violence. Each week students discuss and write brief reviews of these texts. Discussion and short writing pieces are graded. Using the voluminous printed and digital sources available at Hudson, students create first formal paper proposal, followed by a graded rough draft and a final paper of 20 pages.Thematic Seminar: Slavery, Politics, and Resistance in North America Selected topics with thematic focus rather than a geographical focus. The thematic seminar underscores the importance of exploring the diversity and the connections of human experience across space and time, and it aims to support the field of focus pathway within the major."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 462	Seminar on African History	"Selected topics in African history from the ancient times to the present. Possible topics include African kingdoms and civilizations, expansion of Europe and the conquest of Africa, African resistances to colonialism, decolonization, colonial legacy, socio-economic and political developments in post-independence Africa, ethnic relations and conflicts, modern and indigenous mechanisms of governance. Students become familiar with the major historiographical debates in the field and are expected to refer to them in their research project. (GL)"	HIST	3	One African history course		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 475	Seminar in African American History (US)	"Selected problems in African American history, including the civil rights movement and African American intellectual history in the 20th and 21st centuries. (US)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 489	Seminar on Problems in Military History (TR)	"Focuses on the role of organized violence in history in the context of military-civil relations and change in military technology and methodology. The period covered is ancient to modern, European and non-Western. Each seminar concentrates on a particular era. (TR)"	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 490	Honors Seminar in History (TR)	A seminar for candidates for honors and high honors in history. Students enroll in this seminar to complete or extend a paper already begun in another history course. (TR)	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
HIST 591	"Atlantic World, 1492-1800"		HIST	3				
HIST 592	The American West		HIST	3				
HIST 593	Life & Death-Early Modern Brit		HIST	3				
HIST 594	The Crusades		HIST	3				
ITAL 121	Elementary Italian I	"The ITAL 121, 122 sequence is an introduction to the Italian language that provides a foundation in both spoken and written Italian. ITAL 121 introduces students to the basic structures of the language in a highly interactive way: it emphasizes the mastery of grammatical structures and vocabulary with a strong emphasis on obtaining both communicative and cultural competency."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 122	Elementary Italian II	"ITAL 122 is a continuation of ITAL 121 designed to increase students’ proficiency in the four skills of understanding, speaking, reading and writing Italian by enhancing their mastery of more complex grammatical structures and vocabulary. Students continue to work with conversation partners, but will also incorporate more specific cultural references in oral presentations and in written assignments."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	Students with a grade of C– or below in ITAL 122 are urged to repeat the course before continuing.
ITAL 201	Intermediate Italian	"Designed to improve student’s ability to understand, speak, read, and write Italian and to expand students’ knowledge of Italian culture. It includes review of basic Italian grammar and introduction to new grammar structures, conversational practice, short compositions, cultural and literary readings, and films."	RMLL	3	"Two or three years of high school Italian, or ITAL 122, or the equivalent"		Human Thought and Expression	Students with previous high school Italian should consult with instructor for proper language placement
ITAL 202	Intermediate Italian: Language and Literature	"Designed to build proficiency in all four language skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) and to improve knowledge of Italian culture. Besides reviewing and improving students’ grammar and vocabulary competency, this course will focus on the reading of short works of Italian literature, short compositions, and class discussions. Students will engage with a wide variety of literary and nonliterary materials, such as books, newspapers, magazines, and videos."	RMLL	3	ITAL 201 Three to four years of high school Italian or ITAL 201. Students with more than four years of high school Italian should consult the instructor regarding placement.	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 223	Intro to Italian Cinema	"An introduction to major works of Italian cinema from Neorealism to contemporary productions. Students will watch and discuss groundbreaking films by Italian directors such as Rossellini, Fellini, Antonioni, Pasolini, Wertmüller, Benigni, and others. Places Italian cinema within the context of European art cinema and film theory, and focuses on the ways these films represent diverse Italian historical and cultural situations. It emphasizes the study of cinematic analysis and filmmaking techniques, as well as the historical and cultural situation in Italy from World War II to the present. Students are required to attend weekly screenings in addition to regular class meetings. Taught in English, with the option of a discussion group in Italian."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 223L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to ITAL 223.	RMLL	0			Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 223X	Intro to Italian Cinema/FLAC		RMLL	0				
ITAL 224	Introduction to Italian Cinema	"An introduction to major works of Italian cinema from the silent era to contemporary productions. Students will watch and discuss groundbreaking films by Italian directors such as Rossellini, Fellini, Antonioni, Pasolini, Wertmüller, Benigni, and others. Places Italian cinema within the context of European art cinema and film theory, and focuses on the ways these films represent and challenge Italian history, culture, and identity. It emphasizes the study of cinematic analysis and filmmaking techniques, as well as the historical and cultural situation in Italy from the 1920s to the present. Students are required to attend weekly screenings in addition to regular class meetings. Taught in English, with the option of a discussion group in Italian."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 224L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to ITAL 224.	RMLL	0			Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 353	Lit: Modern & Contemp	"Offers a close reading of the most representative works of outstanding Italian writers from the early 1900s to the present. Focuses on questions of aesthetics, national identity, politics, gender, and race as well as on the special relationship between texts and society. Students discuss both canonical works of Italian literature from the Risorgimento (1860) to the present as well as migration literature (from and to Italy), which continually questions the parameters of national identity."	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Italian or ITAL 201	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 354	Modern Italian Culture	"Critically introduces students to the very diverse facets of modern and contemporary Italian culture. Students engage with a wide variety of literary and nonliterary texts, such as books, newspapers, music, theatrical works, films, etc. Aims at investigating the concept of Italian identity in its relationship to issues of class, gender, race, and ethnicity. Students enhance their linguistic skills through reading materials, the writing of compositions, listening activities and oral productions."	RMLL	3	ITAL 201 or at least four years of high school Italian		Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 360	From the Page to the Screen (and Vice-Versa)	"Examines the relationship between literature and cinema by focusing on a critical analysis of both written and film texts through a wide variety of genre and styles. Students consider classic and contemporary theories of literary criticism, film analysis, and film adaptations to address some of the course central questions and raise new ones. How does the medium affect our perception of a story? What can a film add to (or detract from) our reading experience? How does our reading experience affect our watching experience? And what happens when the book is actually written after a film?"	RMLL	3	ITAL 201 or 4 years of high school Italian		Human Thought and Expression	
ITAL 360L	Required Film Screening		RMLL	0				
ITAL 361	"Advanced Grammar, Composition, and Conversation"	Provides a review of grammatical principles with emphasis on correctness and style in composition in Italian.	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Italian or ITAL 201	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 121	Elementary Japanese I	"Introduces the four basic skills of speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing. Emphasis is on thorough mastery of the basic structures of Japanese through intensive aural-oral practice and extensive use of audiovisual materials. The two kana syllabaries and about 60 kanji (characters) are introduced toward the goals of developing reading skills and reinforcing grammar and vocabulary acquisition. When there is sufficient demand, the department may also offer an intensive version of Elementary Japanese that covers a full year of instruction in one spring semester."	EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 122	Elementary Japanese II	"Builds on speaking, listening comprehension, reading, and writing skills acquired in JAPN 121. Emphasis is on thorough mastery of the basic structures of Japanese through intensive aural-oral practice and extensive use of audiovisual materials. By the end of this course, students can read and write in Japanese with a total of about 150 kanji. When there is sufficient demand, the department may also offer an intensive version of Elementary Japanese that covers a full year of instruction in one spring semester."	EALL	3	JAPN 121		Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 201	Intermediate Japanese I	"The first semester of intermediate-level study of Japanese, this course completes the presentation of basic structures of the language. There is continued emphasis on oral communication, with practice in reading simple texts and acquisition of additional kanji."	EALL	3	JAPN 122 or JAPN 124 or equivalent experience	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 202	Intermediate Japanese II	"The second semester of intermediate-level study of Japanese, this course completes the presentation of basic structures of the language. There is continued emphasis on oral communication, with practice in reading simple texts and acquisition of additional kanji."	EALL	3	JAPN 201	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 222	Japan through Literature and Film	"Introduces major works of Japanese literature from the classical, medieval, and modern periods, including novels, short stories, poetry, and drama. Films spanning genres such as samurai, new wave, and anime illuminate the historical periods and their cultural contexts. No knowledge of Japanese is required."	EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 222L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to JAPN 222.	EALL	0			Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 233	Japanese Popular Culture and Media	"Examines how media are rooted in popular cultures and popular cultures in media. Students will draw on media theories from Japan and elsewhere, critically evaluating those theories and applying them to a range of primary materials, including Japanese graphic narrative, literature, animation, film, song, and music as a way to think about the ideologies that affect how popular cultures and media interact. Students will articulate their own positions about the contexts that inform the creation, circulation, and consumption of representations in and of Japan. This course is taught in English."	EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 240	Gender & Sexuality Japan Cultr	"Explores how gender identities and sexualities have been constructed and contested in Japanese culture, as expressed through novels, poetry, manga, films, television, music, video games, and the visual arts. Students first examine Japan’s diverse premodern philosophical, religious, and political conditions of cultural production and reception. Focus then shifts to how gender and sexuality have intersected with race, ethnicity, class, ability, and age in the past 150 years. Specific themes will include evolving gender roles in a rapidly industrializing empire; the changing stakes of coming out in different times and different media; and selling transgender hero(in)es to straight, cisgender audiences. All materials will be in English."	EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 255	Hidden Japan: Tea Ceremony	"“The way of tea,” chanoyu or chado/sado , was established by Sen no Rikyu in the 16th century in Japan, with “harmony, respect, purity, and tranquility” (wa kei sei jaku) as its principles. Chanoyu is the most direct practice of Zen Buddhism tradition, and many samurai warriors practiced it as part of the martial arts education. Students learn to realize the principles of chanoyu in a concrete and ritualistic way of making and receiving a bowl of maccha whisked tea. Assigned readings, along with hands-on practice, help students learn the Japanese tradition, art, aesthetics, calligraphy, literature, history, philosophy, and architecture. At the end of the course, students create and perform a tea ceremony in small groups, write a final paper that reflects on their performance and relates their experience to their modern lives as well as to their own cultural backgrounds. Students learn how the apparent universal concepts such as purity, tranquility, and mindfulness are attained through different sets of human behavior, and examine the human diversity and global interconnections reflected in cultural and artistic expression over time and space. The course is taught in English. Students will consume maccha tea and Japanese confectionery."	EALL	3	JAPN 202	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 301	Advanced Japanese I	"Increasing emphasis on written Japanese, with acquisition by the end of the term of an additional 140 kanji."	EALL	3	JAPN 202 or equivalent experience		Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 302	Advanced Japanese II	"Increasing emphasis on written Japanese, with guided practice in reading unedited modern texts."	EALL	3	JAPN 301		Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 401	Readings in Japanese I	"Focuses on reading in literary and non-literary modern texts and mastery of the remaining Chinese characters on the j?y? kanji list of 1,945 characters."	EALL	3	JAPN 302		Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 402	Readings in Japanese II	"Focuses on reading in literary and non-literary modern texts and mastery of the remaining characters on the list of about 2,000 j?y? kanji."	EALL	3	JAPN 302	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 455	Advanced Grammar in Japanese	"Focuses on a systematic study of advanced grammar necessary for oral and written communication in Japanese at the native speaker level. At this level of advanced study, possibilities of one-on-one correspondences between Japanese and English are few, and simply consulting dictionaries could easily result in insufficient or misleading information. Grammar structures that appear beyond JAPN 402 are covered and extended so that students understand systematic and comprehensive usages. Students concentrate on these kinds of advanced grammar patterns through textbooks and authentic reading materials, and learn to use them actively, accurately, and systematically in context. In addition, the study of kanji characters and vocabulary accompanies the study of grammar in order to reach the native-level fluency."	EALL	3	JAPN 302 or equivalent experience		Human Thought and Expression	
JAPN 499	Special Studies for Honors	Students pursuing honors research enroll in this course.	EALL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 181	The Many Faces of Israel	"Introduction to the rich tapestry of cultures and peoples who live in contemporary Israel. Looking at the experiences of immigrant communities-Jews from Poland, Morocco, India, Russia, Ethiopia, etc., this course will discuss ethnicity, acculturation, and mobility in Israel. A consideration of film, literature, and scholarly accounts from a range of disciplines will allow students to explore both those who are at the center and at the periphery of Israeli society."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 181E	The Many Faces of Israel (Extended Study)	"A continuation of the on-campus course JWST 181, The Many Faces of Israel. Students travel to Israel and experience first-hand the diversity of religions, cultures, and ethnicities in modern Israel and meet with experts on its economy and society."	PSCI	2				
JWST 204	Jewish Fiction since the Holocaust	"Covers representative works of fiction by Italian, French, English, Russian, Hungarian, American, Canadian, and Israeli Jewish writers. Not all nationalities are covered in the syllabus for any given year. Discussion centers on a close analysis of the novels, comparing individual and national responses to the Jewish 20th-century experience. By including fiction written across Europe, North America, and Israel, while limiting the time frame to the years following World War II, the question of whether there exists one or more approaches to fiction that are characteristically Jewish is addressed. All readings are in English translation."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 208	Hebrew Bible in America	"The Bible is not only the best-selling book in America, but is arguably the book that has most profoundly shaped the United States. This course is an introduction to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament in its American contexts, particularly American public life. In reading the Hebrew Bible, students ask themselves how these scriptures have shaped American politics, culture, history, and literature. Who has used the Bible and how? To whom does the Bible now speak, and what does it say? In what sense is the Bible understood to be an American text? This course presumes no knowledge of the Christian or Jewish Bibles."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 213	The Bible as/and Literature	"What role does literary art play in the shaping of biblical narrative? How does the construction of the sacred text reflect its theological meaning? The religious vision of the Bible is given depth and subtlety precisely by being conveyed literarily; thus, the primary concern in this course is with the literature and literary influence of the received text of the Bible rather than with the history of the text's creation. As students read through the canon they establish the boundaries of the texts studied, distinguish the type(s) of literature found in them, examine their prose and poetic qualities, and identify their surface structures. Students also consider the literary legacy of the Bible and the many ways that subsequent writers have revisited its stories."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 222	Comparative Scripture	"Comparative scriptural analysis or what is now called ""Scriptural Reasoning."" The focus will be on close readings of the Hebrew Bible, New Testament, and Qur'an with an eye to common themes and differences. Students will engage in a comparison of interpretive traditions in Judaism, Christianity and Islam to see how particular scriptural passages are understood in the religious traditions. The course will also spend time studying the ways in which scriptural reasoning has been used as a form of religious conflict resolution and peace-building in situations of conflict in the UK and Middle East."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 226	"Reason, Religion, & God"	"Examines the similarities and differences between rational and religious understandings of God. By pursuing close readings of classic texts in the field of philosophy of religion, students considers how both philosophical and religious ideas are often developed together. Students explore various arguments about the rationality of God as responses to wider intellectual, cultural, and historical contexts in which they are made and to the specific shape and needs of a particular religious tradition (e.g., Catholicism, Protestantism, or Judaism). Students also explore the ""rationality"" of religious forms such as scripture, symbol, ritual, and prayer. In different semesters, select themes such as revelation, theodicy (the justification of God in the face of human suffering), providence and free will, or the theism/atheism debate are investigated."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 238	Contemporary Jewish Fiction: Adapting Sacred Texts	"Students will take on a variety of Jewish fictions, treating these both as works of art in their own right and as participants in a traditional or literary lineage. We will explore different ways of understanding ""adaptation"" as a concept across linguistic, temporal, and geographic axes and we will also consider Jewish texts and stories that push against and challenge definitions of adaptation. Anchoring our discussion in the Hebrew Bible itself, we will ask: Why adapt? Does the art of adaptation and remix take on particular resonances for Jewish diasporic and immigrant writers in the late twentieth-century and beyond? How do these authors and creators pull ""original"" works. stories and history into new contexts? How do they draw in readers and audiences to alternate, unfamiliar forms? How do popular genres deal with the weight of tradition? How do these fictions negotiate between the familiar and the strange, and to what ends?"	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 241	American Jewish Thought	"In the United States, modernity developed in distinctive ways, including its tradition of religious toleration, its practice of welcoming (but also stigmatizing) immigrants, and its pragmatic philosophical orientation. Students study Jewish philosophical and theological responses to modernity in the American context, including Jewish pragmatism, existentialism, feminism, and mysticism. Readings are taken from figures like Kaplan, Heschel, Soloveitchik, and Plaskow."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 250	"Jewish Diasporas: Ukraine, Moscow, Jerusalem, New York"	"Looks at the evolution of East European Jewry at the turn of the twentieth century, as a community with a single way of life finds itself in the vastly different environments of immigrant New York, Ottoman-era Palestine, and Soviet Russia. What stays the same and what changes? What is the fate of Marxist-inspired Jews in Palestine and in Soviet Russia? What happened, and what did they think as it happened? The course starts in the 1880s and ends in 1953 (the end of World War II, the formation of the State of Israel, the death of Stalin). The group we are studying is both a historical community, with roots going back 3,000 years, and a community of practice."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 250Z	Jewish Diasporas		PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 251	Faith after the Holocaust	"The death of six million Jews at the hands of the Nazis in the Second World War represents a radical challenge to faith in Judaism, in Christianity, and in humanism. Study begins with a historical overview of the Holocaust and uses accounts of Holocaust survivors to articulate the challenge of the Holocaust to faith. Then students review philosophical and theological responses to this challenge by a variety of Jewish, Christian, and secular authors."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 254	"Hope and Reality, Delusion and Dissent: Story-telling in the age of Communism, Nazism and Exile"	"Examines life under Communism as distilled through the fiction of Russian, East European, and Jewish writers who experienced it firsthand. Students follow the intertwining of political and private life from the inception of a new regime, with many people exuberantly hopeful, through the various stages of acquiescence, resistance, escape, and sometimes death. Authors include Chekhov, Mayakovsky, Babel, Vasily Grossman, Kundera, and Nabokov."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 260	Rabbis Reinventing: The Making of Judaism as We Know It	"Students are introduced to Rabbinic Judaism as it unfolded over centuries and came to be accepted as normative. Students explore ways in which Rabbis worked to create a dynamic religious system, which could portray itself as a continuing tradition while regularly absorbing new ideas and influences. Historical and literary approaches to the course material provide necessary context for developments in Judaism between the second and early twentieth centuries C.E. while exposing students to texts that both shaped those developments and were defined by them."	PSCI	3				
JWST 275	Modern Jewish History	"This course focuses on the experience of Jews in the modern era, from 1871 with the emancipation of the Jews of Germany to the immediate aftermath of the Second World War and the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948. Topics include expulsions and migrations, emancipation and acculturation, anti-Semitism and the Holocaust, modern Jewish nationalism movements such as Zionism, the establishment of the State of Israel, and the expansion of American Jewish communities and the reassertion of Jewish life in Europe in the aftermath of the Holocaust."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
JWST 283	Introduction to Judaism	"Judaism is a dynamic religious tradition that has developed many forms during a more than 3000-year history that has spanned nearly the entire globe. Students in this course consider how Jewish communities from the biblical period to the present day have shaped their practices and beliefs within their own specific historical circumstances. Students read primary sources such as the Bible, the Talmud, the Zohar, midrashim, prayers, response literature, and philosophical and theological discussions. In an effort to understand the ways in which Jews have lived their lives religiously, students explore how Jewish self-identity, textual traditions, and religious practices combine to define “Judaism.”"	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 329	The Politics of Nationalism and Memory in Eastern Europe (Extended Study)	"How is history used to advance state-building and nation-building projects? What role do forgetting and memory play in politics? How do international forces interact with domestic political movements? This extended study course uses Vilnius, the current capital of Lithuania, as a case for studying the politics of nationalism and memory, which so shaped its history and which continue to inform its politics and culture today."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
JWST 339	Modern Jewish Philosophy	"A course on European and American Jewish thought, covering a spectrum of liberal and traditional figures. The course studies the ways in which Jewish thinkers have responded to the challenges of modern philosophy, religious pluralism, and feminism. Modern reformulations of traditional Jewish ideas and religious practices are discussed as well as contemporary theological exchanges between Jews and Christians. Readings are taken from such figures as Mendelssohn, Buber, Rosenzweig, Heschel, Fackenheim, and Plaskow."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 343	Gender and Judaism	"Focused on the creation and conception of gender within Judaism. Students explore the ways in which gender is built into the scriptures, structures, institutions, and ideologies of Judaism, into Jewish religious, cultural and social life. According to Genesis, from the beginning there were male and female. To what degree are these two categories essential? To what degree artificial? How do religion and tradition enforce the gender divide, and in what ways can they be used to blur the distinctions between male and female?"	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 344	Jews and Anti-Judaism	"Explores the origins of the ""oldest hatred"" from its earliest traces in the Hebrew Bible to the present while using this knowledge to test different theories of antisemitism and develop our understanding of how it has changed in every age. Amidst the examination of the development and manifestations of premodern anti-Judaism in its many forms-including the killing of Jesus, the blood libel, host desecration, usury, well-poisoning, and world conspiracy-students will also look to Jewish religious and cultural responses to Christian allegations in an effort to understand the extent to which tensions with their Christian neighbors defined Jews' lives. The course will then turn its focus to modern expressions of antisemitism other than the Holocaust. Students will learn how modern antisemitism is characteristically different from its premodern predecessor anti-Judaism. What mechanisms did Jews develop to survive in the face of irrational hatred?"	PSCI	3	CORE 151		Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 354	"Terror, Dissent, 20th-C Lit"	"Examines life under tyranny – Soviet and Nazi – as distilled through the fiction of Russian/East European and Jewish writers who experienced it firsthand. An intertwining of political and private life from the inception of a new regime, with many people exuberantly hopeful, through the various stages of acquiescence, resistance, escape, and sometimes death. Readings include Timothy Snyder’s essay On Tyranny, stories, novels, and poems by Chekhov, Mayakovsky, Babel, Vasily Grossman, Kundera, and Nabokov."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
JWST 357E	"Cracow, Poland (Extended Study)"	"Bringing together students who have had diverse introductions to Polish culture after WWII, students examines how, in distinct but interrelated ways, Polish art and post-WWII religion each reacted to an era of extreme political instability and horrific violence. Students on this trip pay special attention to how, even decades after the second World War, these broader cultural and religious developments simultaneously persist, are contested, and undergo re-imagination in contemporary Poland."	PSCI	2				
JWST 357EX	Poland ExSt/Polish CLAC		PSCI	0				
JWST 361	The Holocaust in Film	"Explores the history and critical debates surrounding representations of the Holocaust in film, television, and visual culture more broadly across a diverse range of national and historical contexts. It considers the prospects of depicting the Holocaust in a period marked by a decline in the numbers of living historical witnesses and survivors, but a proliferation of historical and artistic representations documenting their experiences. Central to this course are issues pertaining to the aesthetic and ethical challenges of representing those traumas and the potential for addressing contemporary genocide through the lens of the Holocaust."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements		
JWST 361L	Required Film Screening		PSCI	0				
JWST 374	Jews and Autobiography	"Explores the accounts of individual lives as a means of understanding the past and gauging historical change through time. Students will examine memoirs written from early modem era to the present year, from a gambling rabbi in 11th century Italy to a French Jewish child surviving the Holocaust in hiding to the contemporary reflections of an IDF soldier. Among the questions students will consider are the limitations of memoirs as dependable historical sources and the ability of the individual to participate in and reflect historical processes."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
JWST 463	Contemporary Jewish German Literature	"What does it mean to write in German as a Jew today? A diverse group of contemporary German-language authors position themselves as Jewish writers engaged in probing the complex constellations of identity and intergenerational trauma and memory after the Shoah. Much of their work is centered on the Jewish experience in German and Austrian cultures, yet always in a web of relations to other places, their contexts, and languages - for example, Israel and the US, France and Algeria, Russia and Poland. Seismic shifts in national borders and transnational mobility, including German unification in 1990, the immigration of many Jews from the former Soviet Union to Germany and more recent demographic influences of migration of the 21st century, are further reshaping the topographies of intersectional identities and society that these writers explore. Students examine the relationships of generational position, gender, and literary voice; the interfaces of personal stories, historical knowledge, and contemporary local contexts; the politics and collective understandings of the memory of the Shoah; and the roles of literary representations in shaping that memory as time passes and personal memory disappears. Readings include fiction, essays, interviews, songs, and articles by Wolf Biermann, Ruth Beckermann, Maxim Biller, Irene Dische, Olga Grjasnowa, Lena Gorelik, Barbara Honigmann, Wladimir Kaminer, Ruth Kliiger, Katja Petrowskaja, Doron Rabinovici, Robert Schindel and others. May be taught in English translation or in German, depending on the semester and student interests and background. When the course is taught in English, students counting it for German major or minor requirements must also register for the additional (.25 credit) FLAC section (GERM 463X) and do readings and written work in German; students registered for the course as JWST may also join the FLAC course, with instructor permission."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 121	Elementary Latin I	"The first semester of an introductory study of the elements of the Latin language. A thorough and methodical approach to the basics is supplemented, as students progress, by selected readings of works by ancient authors."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 122	Elementary Latin II	"The second semester of an introductory study of the elements of the Latin language. A thorough and methodical approach to the basics is supplemented, as students progress, by selected readings of works by ancient authors."	CLAS	3	LATN 121 or FSEM 153	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 123	Intensive Elementary Latin	"Covers the material of Elementary Latin (121, 122) at an accelerated pace. Open to all students who would like to learn Latin efficiently and intensively; some background in Latin is helpful but not required."	CLAS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 201	Intermediate Latin: Prose	Examines the prose styles of Cicero and Sallust through readings of selections from both Cicero's Orations and Sallust's Bellum Catilinae. Close reading allows students to expand and develop their knowledge of Latin grammar and syntax as well as to learn the fundamentals of Latin prose style.	CLAS	3	LATN 122 or LATN 123 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 202	Intermediate Latin:Poetry	Introduction to Latin poetry through close reading of selections from Vergil or other poets. Students gain a wider appreciation of the technical and literary aspects of Latin poetry through their acquaintance with Rome's great epic poet.	CLAS	3	LATN 122 or LATN 123 or LATN 201 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 321	Livy	Selections from Livy's Ab Urbe Condita are closely read and analyzed. Particular attention is paid to Livy's historiographical method as well as to the Roman republican period that is the subject of the bulk of his work. Selections from other Roman historians may be examined for comparison.	CLAS	3	LATN 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 340	Roman Oratory	"Examines the role and development of public speaking in the Roman republic. Readings in Latin include early rhetorical fragments (from Cato the Elder and others) and one major oration of Cicero. Several Ciceronian speeches are also read in English translation. Equal amounts of attention are given to analysis of style, scrutiny of argument, and study of historical context."	CLAS	3	LATN 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 350	Roman Comedy	"At least one complete play from the early Roman comedians, Plautus and Terence, is closely read and analyzed. The focus is on Roman social structure satirized and revealed within the comedies as well as on the unique language of the plays. This allows a glimpse at a more colloquial Latin than that of later poets and prose stylists."	CLAS	3	LATN 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 360	Roman Elegy	"Selections from Propertius, Tibullus, Ovid, and Catullus are subjected to close reading and analysis. Particular attention is paid to the development and tradition of the genre of Roman elegy. The Roman elegists oppose their own poetical technique and thematic direction to that of the writers of more ""serious"" poetry. Students explore this dichotomy."	CLAS	3	LATN 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 370	Ovid	"Close reading and analysis of one of the most influential of ancient works, the Metamorphoses. Ovid's epic poem encompasses all of Graeco-Roman myth, poetry, and history. Students have the opportunity to master Ovid's classic Latin style and to explore his influences and those he influenced."	CLAS	3	LATN 201 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 380	Petronius	"A reading of the surviving fragments of the Satyricon of Petronius. The Cena Trimalchionis is read in its entirety. This work, considered perhaps the first novel in literary history, offers an unusual glimpse into the decadent world of southern Italy in the late 1st century A.D. Particular attention is paid to the variety of the writer's Latin style that reflects language used by different social classes in this period."	CLAS	3	LATN 202 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 430	Lyric Poetry	"Close reading and analysis of selections from Horace's Odes. Students will study all aspects of the poems, including the poet's accomplishments in metrics and poetics, his thematic concerns, and the relationship between poem and poetic book."	CLAS	3	LATN 340 or LATN 350 or LATN 360 or LATN 370 or LATN 380 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 440	Vergil's Eclogues & Georgics	"Close reading and analysis of selections from Vergil's two earlier works, the genres to which they belong (bucolic and didactic), and their relationship to his Aeneid. Students focus on questions of genre, the relationship between the poet and his Greek and Roman predecessors, and the thematic and poetic development of the poet."	CLAS	3	LATN 201 or LATN 321 or LATN 340 or LATN 350 or LATN 360 or LATN 370 or LATN 380 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LATN 450	Cicero's Letters	"Close reading and analysis of a selection of Cicero's correspondence (from the collection of more than 900 letters) with such figures as Marcus Brutus and Julius Caesar, as well as with close friends and family. Students not only focus on the broad variations in style evident throughout the corpus but also examine the tumultuous world of the late Republic, in which Cicero himself played a leading role and for which his letters remain one of history's most revealing testimonies."	CLAS	3	LATN 202 or LATN 340 or LATN 350 or LATN 360 or LATN 370 or LATN 380 or higher		Human Thought and Expression	
LCTL 191	Korean	Part of Hudson’s Less Commonly Taught Languages Program (for further description of LCTL see the program description).	EALL	2				
LGBT 220	"Lives, Communities, and Modes of Critical Inquiry: An Exploration into LGBTQ Studies"	"Explores the lives, experiences, and representations of LGBTQ persons, those who identify or are identified as transgressive in terms of their sexuality and/or gender expression. Particular emphases may vary, but topics typically explore LGBTQ communities and families, cultures, and subcultures; histories, institutions, and literatures; and/or economic and political lives. Selected topics serve to expose complex cultural forces that continue to shape sexuality and regulate its various expressions. The course promotes the examination of new theories and methodologies in relation to established disciplines as it underscores the generation of new knowledge within traditional fields of scholarship. By examining sexualities, students gain an understanding of and respect for other differences in human lives such as age, ability, class, ethnicity, gender, race, and religion."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
LGBT 227	Machismo & the Latin Lover	"Interrogates the intersection of sexuality and gender in Latin American and Iberian literature and film. Beginning with representations of Don Juan in 16th- through 19th-century Spain, students see how during that period of imperial expansion a particular brand of masculinity spread throughout the ""New World."" The second part of the course focuses on writings and films from artists whose works draw on and question myths of Hispanic masculinity by looking at non-white, female, and queer versions of the Don Juan archetype in Latin America. Lastly, students examine how the figure of the Latin Lover has been appropriated and critiqued by writers and directors in non-Hispanic contexts. These are analyzed together with critical works on masculinity, gender theory, and cultural studies."	EDUC	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
LGBT 241	Queering Education	"LGBTQ youth have traditionally been marginalized in schools. K-12 education offers few curricular and institutional spaces where queer identities are affirmed and queer voices are heard. From sex education to the prom, most schools and educators operate under the ahistorical guise of heteronormativity--a term used to describe ideologies and practices that organize and privilege opposite-sex gender relations and normative gender and sexual identities. Using critical lenses developed by queer and feminist theorists and critical pedagogues, this course seeks both to explore how heteronormativity operates in a variety of educational spaces and how students and educators are confronting these processes by using schools as sites of resistance."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or RELG 253 or SOCI 220 or LGBT 220		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
LGBT 242	"Religions of Resistance: Gender, Sexuality and Performance in the Caribbean"	"Studies African-derived religions and practices in the Caribbean, particularly the ways in which they constitute anticolonial and decolonial perspectives and practices. By exploring texts drawn from cultural studies, religious studies, literature, theatre and anthropology, students will develop an analytical framework through which to examine concepts such as syncretism and hybridity, ritual and bodily performance, and the construction of gender and sexuality. Key concerns in this course are the empowerment of women and people of diverse gender and sexual identities in religious contexts, black identity in the Caribbean and beyond, and the creation of new spaces for marginalized voices to be heard."	EDUC	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
LGBT 242X	Relig of Resistance/FLAC-SPAN		EDUC	0				
LGBT 303	Queer Ident/Global Discourses	"Queer identities are -- and have long been -- enmeshed within large-scale circuits of exchange engendered by the movement of people, ideologies, markets, and capital. This course considers transnational conceptualizations and circulations associated with gender or sexual nonconformity. In doing so, it emphasizes ways of interrogating queer citizenship that purposefully attend to dynamics exemplifying complex interactions on global and local scales. Rather than assuming a particular narrative, the course examines the way by which queer identities are variously constructed and contested."	EDUC	3		Global Engagements		
LGBT 310	Imagining Queer Caribbean Futures	"Students will study LGBTQ-themed graphic novels, speculative fiction, and films from across the Caribbean and its US diasporic communities that draw on Afrofuturism as well as African-derived and indigenous traditions and visual cultures to imagine alternative pasts, decolonized futures, and solutions to environmental problems. Legacies of colonial violence, destructive weather events, and damaging policies have made it difficult to imagine a way forward, especially for those with non-hegemonic racial, gender, and sexual identities. Studied alongside political, sociological, and historical works, textual and performative artistic productions will be employed as contestatory discourses that center those who are most marginalized and imagine creative responses to the economic, environmental, and social issues the region and its diasporas face."	EDUC	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
LGBT 320	LGBTQ Health	"This course is dedicated to understanding the health and well-being of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer) individuals. After introducing sociological understandings of sex, gender, and sexuality, students will examine historical and contemporary health disparities that disproportionately impact sexual and gender minority populations. Students are encouraged to think critically about how the healthcare industry effects cultural ideologies that shape the lived experiences of LGBTQ individuals and vice-versa. Using an intersectional and sociological lens, students will explore the complex relationships between patient, provider, medicine, and cultural values."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
LGBT 340	Rural Sexualities and Genders	"Global LGBTQ politics and historiography have produced a dominant narrative that celebrates urban centers and Western metropolises as the spaces in which queer life and communities thrive. However, non-normative sexualities and expressions of gender have long been cultivated in rural spaces. This course draws on theoretical, literary and cinematic works that engage with the challenges and complexities of being queer in rural spaces, particularly when compounded by poverty, racism, the degradation of the environment, and exploitation of natural resources. Furthermore, this course explores the potential of rural LGBTQ communities to offer new models and definitions of queerness that are anti-consumerist, anti-urban, decolonial and sustainable. Students are prompted to understand gender and sexual diversity as intimately tied to issues such as environmental justice, biodiversity, and indigeneity through examples taken from around the world and in upstate New York."	EDUC	3			Human Thought and Expression	
LGBT 350	"Sexuality, Gender, and the Law"	"The course examines the effects of the U.S. legal system on the lives of the LGBTQ communities; the influence of religion, science, and culture on the laws affecting LGBTQ individuals; and the processes by which LGBTQ citizens may advance their legal rights. Constitutional theories such as equal protection, privacy, due process, liberty interests, and states' rights are applied to issues such as consensual sodomy, same-sex marriage, LGBTQ parenting, employment rights, military policy, and freedoms of public school students. The power of the U.S. Supreme Court to shape laws concerning LGBTQ issues not only for the present society but for future generations is also examined. Cases studied are supplemented with secondary works. These works include writings by traditional legal scholars as well as works by feminists, race-based scholars, and queer theorists to create a fuller perspective. Through this exploration into the legal reality of a marginalized group, students see how the U.S. legal system continues to evolve in its struggle to provide equality for all of its citizens."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
LGBT 355	Queer Outlaws in Lit. and Film	"An intersection of sexuality and legality in literature and film. Beginning with topics of LGBTQ activism, homosociality and homonormativity, students will analyze how certain bodies and sexualities come to be on the right or wrong side of the law and how these sexual norms are quite literally policed. Focus will shift to literary writings and films from artists whose queer protagonists choose not to seek acceptance but rather to move outside of the law. Through bank robbery, border crossing, terrorism and homicide, these figures threaten not only the sexual order but also structures of class, race, and national security. Students will inquire into the true nature of these crimes, and determine how their crimes are sexualized and their sexualities criminalized. These will be analyzed together with critical works on queer and dissident genders and sexualities. The course may vary between semesters to focus on different regions or periods."	EDUC	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
LGBT 360	Special Topics in LGBTQ Studies: Archiving Queer Hudson Histories	"Examines queer lives at Hudson and the Queer Activism at Hudson (QAC) digital history project, which serves as a record of queer lived experiences on campus. Students consider the documentation and erasure of queer lives, their presence in and absence from historical narratives, and the ways that oral and digital history projects–both large and small–have sought to foreground queer voices in twentieth- and twenty-first-century public history. Turning to the Hudson community, students contribute to the ongoing QAC digital history project through various project-oriented assignments. These include research for the QAC digital timeline and conducting oral histories with alums or other community members, which will be deposited in the public-facing QAC digital archive."	EDUC	3	LGBT 220 or LGBT 227 or LGBT 241 or LGBT 242 or LGBT 303 or LGBT 310 or LGBT 340 or LGBT 350 or LGBT 355 or WMST 202 or HIST 304 or LGBT 250 or LGBT 320 One LGBT course or WMST 202 or HIST 304			
LGBT 591	Queering Education		EDUC	3				
LING 200	Language Acquisition	"Explores scientific questions regarding infants' and adults' acquisition of native and non-native languages. Students read journal articles and book chapters in the interdisciplinary field of linguistics, and engage in collecting and analyzing spoken language data. What goes on in the brains of new-born infants before they discover the meanings of words? Why do some adults succeed in learning a second language, while others do not? What might be the linguistic and social consequences of acquiring an English dialectal accent? Do non-human animals use language? Addressing these questions illuminates physiological, linguistic, psychological, and social factors that determine success or failure of acquiring language."	PHIL	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 105	Introduction to Statistics	"An introduction to the basic concepts of statistics. Topics include experimental design, descriptive statistics, correlation, regression, basic probability, mean tendencies, the central limit theorem, point estimation with errors, hypothesis testing for means, proportions, paired data, and the chi-squared test for independence. Emphasis is on statistical reasoning rather than computation, although computation is done via software."	MATH	3	Three years of secondary school mathematics		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 161	Calculus I	"An introduction to the basic concepts of differential and integral calculus including limits and continuity; differentiation of algebraic, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions; applications of the derivative to curve sketching, related rates, and maximum-minimum problems; Riemann sums and the definite integral; and the fundamental theorem of calculus."	MATH	3	"Three years of high school mathematics, including trigonometry"		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 162	Calculus II	"A continuation of the study of calculus begun in MATH 161. Topics covered include the calculus of inverse trigonometric functions, techniques of integration, improper integrals, L'Hôpital's rule and indeterminate forms, applications of integration, and Taylor series. Note: MATH 161 may not be taken after credit is earned for MATH 162."	MATH	3	MATH 161 (formerly MATH 111) with a grade of C- or higher or equivalent experience in a secondary school calculus course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 163	Calculus III	"The content from MATH 161 and MATH 162 is extended to several variables. Among the topics considered are surfaces in three-dimensional space, partial derivatives, maxima and minima, and multiple integrals."	MATH	3	MATH 162 with a grade of C- or higher or equiv experience in a secondary school calculus course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 214	Linear Algebra	"A study of sets of linear equations and their transformation properties over vector spaces. Topics include: systems of linear equations, matrices, determinants, vector spaces, linear transformations, eigenvalues, eigenvectors, and diagonalization."	MATH	3	MATH 163 (may be taken concurrently)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 240	Computational Statistics	"Provides a comprehensive introduction to the field of statistics and probability and the understanding of scientific programming and simulation. Students learn to clean, summarize, and analyze data in R, focusing on interpretation and extracting information. Aims to expose students to the theory of probability and statistics through computational exercises and topics that provide insight into the essential theories of probability, random variables, expectations, and statistical inference. The required lab portion of the course enables students to implement these ideas in R by exploring real data from several disciplines."	MATH	3	MATH 162; Not open to students who have taken MATH 354		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 240L	Computational Statistics Lab	Required corequisite to MATH 240.	MATH	1				
MATH 250	Number Theory and Mathematical Reasoning	"Questions about the positive integers 1, 2, 3 . . . have fascinated people for thousands of years. While none of the primes 7, 11, or 19 can be expressed as the sum of two squares. Is there a pattern? Does it continue forever? This course focuses on such equations as a means for introducing students to the spirit and methods of modern mathematics. The emphasis throughout is on developing the ability to construct logically sound mathematical arguments and communicate these arguments in writing."	MATH	3	MATH 162 or MATH 163 with a grade of C or better		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 260	Computational Mathematics	"An exploration of computer manipulation and presentation of mathematical ideas. The computer allows mathematics to be explored, manipulated and connected to data. No background in programming is presumed. Students learn how numbers are stored and manipulated on the computer in order to do mathematics (from calculus to linear algebra to exploring patterns in the integers), how mathematical functions can be encoded and presented, and how data relates to functions. Induction and continuity are methods of proof relying on infinity, yet will be explored using the finite number cruncher called a computer. The results provide examples and intuition for further mathematical investigation. The required lab portion of the course allows students to implement these ideas in practice."	MATH	3	MATH 162 and MATH 163		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 260L	Computational Mathematics Lab	Required corequisite to MATH 260.	MATH	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 302	Systems Biology	"Systems biology is an emerging interdisciplinary field that focuses on system level understanding of complex interactions of biological processes using quantitative approaches. The course focuses on the applications of mathematical techniques such as differential equations, network structure measures, machine learning and modeling (e.g., Boolean and stochastic modeling) to the study of gene regulation, synthetic gene circuits, small- and large-scale biological networks, and signal transduction pathways. Students also learn how to use computer software that is designed for biological data analysis such as GenePattern and COPASI."	MATH	3	(MATH 161 or MATH 162) and (BIOL 182 or MATH 163 or PHYS 204 or COSC 101)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 308	Differential Equations	"Differential Equations relate unknown functions to their derivatives. Finding the solution involves identifying functions that satisfy that equation. This course focuses on techniques for solving ordinary differential equations as well as some basic general theory of ordinary differential equations. Topics include: first order equations with associated initial conditions, linear higher order equations with constant coefficients, systems of linear and nonlinear differential equations, and solutions written as power series and/or using transforms. Applications are presented."	MATH	3	MATH 162 and MATH 163 and MATH 214		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 310	Combinatorial Problem Solving	"Develops methods to solve combinatorial (finite) problems arising in mathematics, computer science, and other areas from the natural and social sciences. Enumeration and graph theory are the main subjects. Topics include recurrence relations, generating functions, inclusion-exclusion, modeling with graphs, trees and searching, graph coloring, and network algorithms. The emphasis is on problem solving rather than theory."	MATH	3	MATH 112 or MATH 162		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 312	Math Modeling: Social Sciences	"How do we translate problems from the world into solvable mathematical problems? Mathematical modeling is the art of creating mathematical problems whose solutions are useful for real world problems. Methods such as scaling, qualitative analysis, chaos and limits of predictability, Markov chains and simple random models, agent based models and optimization of non-parametric functions are discussed. Applications considered arise from economics, political science, and sociology."	MATH	3	MATH 214		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 313	Functions of a Complex Variable	"By introducing the imaginary number i = ?-1 the analysis of functions over the complex plane becomes, at times, distinctly different than over the real plane. Topics include complex numbers and functions, the theory of differentiation and integration of complex functions, sequences and series of complex functions, and conformal mapping. Special attention is given to Cauchy's integral theorem."	MATH	3	(MATH 112 or MATH 162) and (MATH 113 or MATH 163)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 315	Mathematical Biology	"Mathematical biology is a fast growing and interdisciplinary area in which mathematics is utilized as a tool for studying various biological phenomena such as population growth, infectious diseases, the spread of invasive species, cell movement, dynamics of a neuron, etc. This course provides an introduction to the basics of discrete and continuous models and mathematical concepts for students to learn how to derive, interpret, solve, simulate, and understand models of biological systems."	MATH	3	(MATH 162 or MATH 112) and (MATH 163 or MATH 113)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 316	Probability	"An introduction to the basic concepts of discrete and continuous probability: axioms and properties of probability, standard counting techniques, conditional probability, important random variables and their discrete and continuous distributions, expectation, variance, and joint distribution functions. Additional topics may include: Poisson processes, Markov chains, and Monte Carlo methods."	MATH	3	MATH 162 and MATH 163		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 354	Data Analysis I - Generalized Linear Models	"An applied regression course that involves modeling data with generalized linear and nonparametric models including hands on Tukey-style data analysis with statistics software. Students explore topics that are widely used today across disciplines in academic research and in business; such topics include point and interval estimation, correlation, regression, analysis of variance (ANOVA), model diagnostics, model building, and transformations. Students will start with regression analysis with a single predictor variable, then consider regression analysis where two or more variables are used for making predictions. While applied, this course aims to combine theory and application to emphasize the need for understanding each methods' theoretical foundation. This conversation is had through illustrating a variety of inferences, residual analyses and fully exploring the implications of our assumptions."	MATH	3	ECON 375 or BIOL 320 or PSYC 309 or (MATH 105 and MATH 260) or (CORE 143S and MATH 260) or (MATH 105 and COSC 290) or (CORE 143S and COSC 290)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 360	Graph Theory	"An investigation of the properties and structure of graphs. Graph theory uses mathematical constructs called graphs to approach a diverse set of problems that have nontrivial applications in computer science, operations research and other disciplines. It is one of the very few mathematical areas where one is always close to interesting unsolved problems. Topics include graphs and subgraphs, trees, connectivity, Eulerian and Hamilton cycles, matchings, colorings, planar graphs, directed graphs, network flows, counting arguments, and graph algorithms."	MATH	3	MATH 250 or MATH 310 or COSC 290		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 375	Abstract Algebra I	"Abstract algebraic structures, rather than results specific to the usual number systems, are developed. Basic algebraic structures presented include groups, rings, integral domains, and fields."	MATH	3	MATH 250 with a grade of C or better		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 376	Numerical Analysis	"An introductory treatment of methods used for numerical approximation. Topics include: roots of equations, simultaneous linear equations, quadrature, and other fundamental processes using high speed computing devices."	MATH	3	MATH 214 and MATH 260 (260 with a grade of C or better)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 377	Real Analysis I	"Results from calculus, including limits, continuity, the derivative, and the Riemann integral, are given a rigorous treatment."	MATH	3	MATH 162 and MATH 163 and (MATH 250 or MATH 260) with a grade of C or better		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 382	Topology	"An introduction to both point-set topology and basic algebraic topology. Topics include metric spaces, topological spaces, compactness, connectedness, the classification of surfaces, mod-2 homology, and the Jordan curve theorem. Additional topics that demonstrate connections with analysis, dynamics, and algebra are determined by the instructor based on student interest."	MATH	3	MATH 250 with a grade of C or better		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 389	Axiomatic Set Theory	"Set theory serves as a foundation for all of mathematics, in the sense that all of the objects and constructions of mathematics can be expressed in terms of sets. It was discovered over 100 years ago; however, that intuitive set theory is riddled with contradictions. This course introduces students to the axioms of Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory, which restrict the ways in which sets can be formed, in the hope of avoiding the contradictions. Topics include the Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms and some of their consequences; well-orderings and various statements equivalent to the axiom of choice; and ordinal and cardinal numbers."	MATH	3	MATH 250 with a grade of C or better		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 399	Math Problem Solving	This capstone seminar gives students a research experience through work on a semester-long problem. Students are expected to attend weekly progress meetings with the instructor.	MATH	3	MATH 250 and (MATH 320 or MATH 375 or MATH 323 or MATH 377)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 408	Partial Differential Equations	"Explores mathematics as it is applied to the physical sciences. Mathematical topics may include boundary value problems, partial differential equations, special functions, Fourier series and transforms, Green's functions, and approximate solution methods."	MATH	3	MATH 308		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 410	Ramsey Theory	"Unbreakable, inevitable, assured, inescapable: choose whichever synonym you prefer. Ramsey theory is the study of properties that must occur for sufficiently large structures. We can try to break the structure through partitioning, but a Ramsey property will persist. We will survey the main results in Ramsey theory and, along the way, encounter several disparate proof techniques. We will visit van der Waerden's Theorem on arithmetic progressions, Ramsey's Theorem on graphs and hypergraphs, the Hales-Jewett Theorem on multi-dimensional tic-tac-toe, and Hindman's Theorem on infinite sets of finite sums, among other fascinating results."	MATH	3	MATH 250 and (MATH 310 or MATH 360 or MATH 375 or MATH 320)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 414	Matroids	"Matroids take varying notions of ""independence"" within different areas of mathematics -- including linear algebra, graph theory, geometry, and abstract algebra -- and form a way to unite them. This single idea, first studied in 1935, turned out to form an immensely powerful framework that is among the most active areas of research within discrete mathematics. For example, it turns out that greedy algorithms are possible exactly when there is a matroid lurking in the background. Students are introduced to the fundamentals of matroid theory, with an emphasis on geometry. Topics include graphic matroids, representable matroids, affine and projective finite geometries, hyperplane arrangements, operations on matroids, and the Tutte polynomial."	MATH	3	MATH 214 and MATH 250 and (MATH 310 or MATH 360 or MATH 375)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 416	Mathematical Statistics	"Building on the material learned in MATH 316, students examine the theoretical underpinning of statistical results. Topics include estimation theory, confidence intervals, and tests of hypotheses (including an introduction to Bayesian and nonparametric estimation). More specifically, students explore sufficiency, maximum likelihood techniques, minimum variance principles, uniformly most powerful tests, pivotal quantities, test inversions, and asymptotic evaluation with the choice of topics determined by the instructor. Students may find MATH 416 a useful companion to the application-focused MATH 354."	MATH	3	MATH 316		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 448	Nonlinear Dynamics & Chaos	An introduction to the techniques and concepts used to analyze real-time dynamic models that involve nonlinear terms. Applications are emphasized and demonstrate the universality of chaotic solution behavior. This course is team-taught by members of the physics and mathematics departments.	MATH	3	MATH 308 or PHYS 334		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Students should enroll through the department for which they intend to use the credit.
MATH 450	Number Theory II	"Continues the study of number theory begun in MATH 250 and includes the Quadratic Reciprocity Law of Gauss, the Cubic Reciprocity Law of Eisenstein and Jacobi, and other topics from algebraic number theory."	MATH	3	MATH 375		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 454	Data Analysis II - Nonlinear Model Inference	"An applied regression course that involves modeling and interpreting data with nonlinear models including K Nearest Neighbors, Logistic Regression, Discriminant Analysis, Bootstrapping, Ridge Regression, LASSO, Principal Components Analysis, Regression Splines, Generalized Additive Models, Tree-Based Models, and Support Vector Machines. While applied, it aims to combine theory and application to emphasize the need for understanding each method's theoretical foundation. This conversation is had through illustrating a variety of inferences, residual analyses and fully exploring the implications of our assumptions."	MATH	3	MATH 354		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 460	Hilbert and Banach Spaces	"Introduces the notions of Hilbert and Banach spaces. A thorough understand­ing of these types of spaces is crucial in several areas of mathematics and applied mathematics. For example, quantum theory can be formulated in terms of operators on infinite dimensional Hilbert spaces. Students are also introduced to the notion of frames. In finite dimensions frames are spanning sets for a vector space."	MATH	3	MATH 214 and MATH 377		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 481	Modeling of Biological Systems	"Quantitative techniques have become a crucial tool in recent years for analyzing biological systems, a field which has been flooded with highly detailed experimental data due to new advanced data acquisition techniques in the biological sciences. This interdisciplinary research tutorial explores the analysis of biological systems using quantitative approaches such as mathematical modeling, statistical learning, and computer programming. Research topics include (but are not limited to) gene regulation, disease networks, and cell cycle regulation."	MATH	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 482	Research Seminar: Applied Mathematics	This capstone seminar presents senior Applied Mathematics majors with a research experience in applied mathematics. Each student will work closely with the instructor on a research problem that will require the integration of previously developed applied mathematics skills. Students will apply their learning from previous math courses toward a specified research problem and will delve deeply into material related to the specific problem. Each student will complete a written piece of mathematics addressing their research problem and will present their work as a final thesis.	MATH	3	MATH 376 and MATH 377		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 483	Research Seminar: Mathematics	This capstone seminar presents senior Mathematics majors with a research experience in mathematics. Each student will work closely with the instructor on a research problem that will require the integration of previously developed mathematics skills. Students will apply their learning from previous math courses toward a specified research problem and will delve deeply into material related to the specific problem.	MATH	3	MATH 375 and MATH 377		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 485	Abstract Algebra II	"Continues the study of abstract algebraic structures, providing a careful and intensive study of topics such as group theory, ring theory, field theory, and Galois theory."	MATH	3	MATH 375 with a grade of B or better		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 487	Real Analysis II	"Topics for this course are selected from among the following: metric spaces, sequences and series of functions, the Lebesgue integral."	MATH	3	MATH 377 or MATH 323		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 499	Mathematical Logic	"The topics covered include the following: propositional and predicate calculus, completeness and compactness theorems, the foundations of nonstandard analysis, first-order model theory, recursive functions, a full proof of Godel's Incompleteness Theorem, and undecidability."	MATH	3	(MATH 375 or MATH 320) with grade of B or higher		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
MATH 591	Introduction to Statistics		MATH	3				
MIST 121	Elementary Arabic I	"Offers elementary training in the skills of listening, speaking, reading, and writing through intensive training in the phonology and script of Modern Standard Arabic and its basic vocabulary and fundamental structure. There is a focus on simple interactive communicative tasks involving teacher with students and students among themselves. Basic grammar is taught through reading, writing, and speaking drills in conjunction with the formal exercises in the text. This training is supplemented with simple lessons on interpersonal transactions and cultural contexts."	HIST	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 122	Elementary Arabic II	"Continues the presentation of fundamentals of Arabic grammar and the development of proficiency in reading, writing, and spoken communication skills and oral comprehension, including extensive cultural material. Provides additional training in formal spoken Arabic, with significant consideration to deviations of certain Arabic dialects. In addition to standard drills, students are expected to engage in structured and semi-structured speaking activities, as well as content-based language activities built around regional topics."	HIST	3	MIST 121		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 201	Intermediate Arabic I	"Continues the study of Modern Standard Arabic begun in MIST 121 and 122, or their equivalent. Emphasis is placed on grammatical analysis, writing, and reading of increasingly longer and more complex texts; further vocabulary acquisition; and continued practice in listening and speaking formal Arabic."	HIST	3	MIST 122		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 202	Intermediate Arabic II	"Continues the presentation of fundamentals of Arabic grammar and the development of proficiency in reading, writing, and spoken communications skills and oral comprehension, including extensive cultural material. Students should be able to receive instructions in Arabic. Provides additional extensive training in formal spoken Arabic, with significant consideration to classical Arabic, as well as the deviations of certain Arabic dialects. Students concentrate on extensive reading and writing as well as correct prose. Students encompass interdialectical features as well as the variations of modern standard Arabic; and complete and emphasize the functional as well as the situational aspects of the Arabic language. Students are expected to write brief essays in Arabic and continue to engage in structured and semi-structured writing and speaking activities, as well as content-based language activities built around regional topics."	HIST	3	MIST 201 or equivalent		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 214	Muhammad and the Qur'an	"Provides an in-depth introduction to the Qur'an, the life of the Prophet Muhammad, and the centuries of interpretative debates among both Muslims and non-Muslims over the meaning of these two foundations of the Islamic tradition. Students begin with an immersion in the earliest Islamic primary sources, reading excerpts from the Qur'an itself and the first biography of Muhammad ever written. Next, students examine recent scholarly debates over the nature of Muhammad's movement and message. The second half of the course adopts a more thematic approach, looking at issues like the place of women in the Qur'an, the authority of reason vs. revelation, Qur'anic ethics, and Western depictions of Muhammad."	HIST	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 215	Comparative Politics: Middle East	"An introduction to Middle Eastern politics, including historical foundations of the modern Middle East, competing strategies of state building, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Gulf War, the rise of political Islam, and American policy toward the region."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
MIST 220	"Media, Power & Protest"	"Shortly after 2011’s so called “Arab Spring,” demonstrations targeted American Embassies across Northern Africa, South Asia and the Middle East. More recently and close to home, concerns about “fake news” and autocracy have driven American citizens online and into the streets. Amidst the dueling democracy - autocracy narratives raging across the world, too often forgotten is the power of imagery, cultural production, and mediated realities - should the US publish images of Osama Bin Laden’s death? What can the dissemination of Syrian refugee depictions reveal about national security concerns? Through cultivating critical media literacy in political, social, and historical context, students will assess a host of predominant explanations for the North African “Arab Spring” of 2011, as well as contemporary American political protest."	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
MIST 252	Muslim Societies in Motion	"How have contemporary global markets, media, and mobility fueled a worldwide Islamic revival? Has expanded access to public schooling and digital media among ordinary Muslims challenged state power and authority—or enhanced it? If pious Muslims rejected Islam’s mystical (Sufi) traditions in the twentieth century, why are many embracing these traditions today? This course poses and answers such questions by exploring Muslim-majority societies across time and place, emphasizing the changing technologies, institutions, practices, and identities that bind them. Major historical topics addressed include Islam’s foundational texts and interpretive traditions, colonial modernity and market capitalism, the rise of nation-states and national identities, and contemporary globalization. Major social-cultural topics include changing media technologies and access, current Islamic revivalism and Islamic feminist movements, gender and sexuality, knowledge and power, and secularism and non-Muslim religious minorities."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
MIST 253	Contemp Arab Soc: Morocco ES	"This extended study course aims at introducing students to the dynamics and development of a contemporary Arab society through engaging critically with academic sources on campus and an on-site living experience. It provides students a sense of the many layers and elements of selected aspects of Moroccan society on both theoretical and practical levels. It includes a three-week extended study in Morocco, which is designed to give the students a unique opportunity to reflect on the society utilizing the program’s language study, homestay experience, cross-cultural orientation, lectures, and excursions. Students learn how to apply the practical knowledge, the skills, and the daily experience they gain during their visit, to have a better understanding of the country from the locals’ standpoints while simultaneously comparing and relating it to their own Hudson academic perspectives and personal perspectives as citizens of the world. Students must complete both the on-campus component and the extended study component of the course in order to earn credit for the course."	HIST	3	MIST 122 or higher. MIST 122 may be taken concurrently.			
MIST 262	Islam in Our Post-9/11 World	"The September 11th attacks left an indelible mark on both American political discourse and the experiences of Muslim communities across the globe. This course asks: how should we conceptualize the relationship between Islam and the West in our post-9/11 world? Together, we will explore the history and ideas behind contemporary headlines in an effort to understand the roots of Islamist violence, American foreign policy towards Muslim-majority countries, Muslim debates over the future of their faith, and popular discourse on Islam in the West. We will look at a wide range of sources and perspectives in order to tackle these difficult but exceedingly relevant issues."	HIST	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 301	Advanced Arabic I	"The first part of a year-long advanced Arabic sequence that aims to move students from the intermediate level towards the advanced level of proficiency as defined by the standards set by the American Council of Teachers of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). Designed to enable students to refine and expand their knowledge of Arabic grammar and sentence structures via intensive daily instruction that includes practice of all the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Cultural awareness is also integral to the Advanced Arabic course and is introduced through readings, lectures, and activities, and further reinforced through an assigned cultural project. Conducted in Arabic and most of the materials are authentic."	HIST	3	MIST 202		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 302	Advanced Arabic II	"Second part of a year-long advanced Arabic sequence that aims to move students from the intermediate level towards the advanced level of proficiency as defined by the standards set by the American Council of Teachers of Foreign Languages (ACTFL). Designed to enable students to refine and expand their knowledge of Arabic grammar and sentence structures via intensive daily instruction that includes practice of all the four language skills: listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Cultural awareness is also integral to the Advanced Arabic course and is introduced through readings, lectures, and activities, and further reinforced through an assigned cultural project. Conducted in Arabic and most of the materials are authentic."	HIST	3	MIST 301		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 310	Sharia Law	"Addresses Islamic jurisprudence from the historical background of Islamic law, known as Shari’ah, namely the five Sunni and Shiite Schools of Law, the concept of “Ijtihad,” and Islamic criminal law. Students also study the relationship between Islamic and other systems of jurisprudence. Consideration of Muslim theology offers an important context for understanding Islamic law."	HIST	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 320	Transnational Feminisms of the Long 19th Century	"Expands the Euro-, US-centric genealogy of feminism towards transnational contexts in which it assumes new, compelling forms and meanings. More specifically, students compare and contrast British and American literary feminist perspectives with those found in the Middle Eastern cultures. Through the works of Bibi Khanum Astarabadi, Mary Wollstonecraft, Melek Hanum, Philis Wheatley, and other authors from Britain, the United States, Iran, and Turkey across various genres, students will reconsider what ""agency"" looks like in the experiences of women who do not conform to patriarchal and androcentric aesthetic and political norms. Foregrounding the multifarious connections between seemingly disparate literary traditions, the course unsettles national boundaries, revising the vocabularies and practices of feminism by decentering their presumed Anglo-American origins."	HIST	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 330	Global Political-Economy of the Middle East and North Africa	"How can we understand the challenges that face the Middle East and North Arica in relation to the broad sweep of global history and our increasingly interconnected world? Students examine the evolving relationship between the modern world and the regions of northern Africa and southwestern Asia, from the global economy of the Silk Road to the transnational causes of the 2011 Arab Uprisings. Going beyond the intersection of politics and economics, students examine the various ways in which governments — states, colonies, and empires — have come to understand and manage the societies and territories under their jurisdiction. At the same time, students examine the interactive relationship between state power and regional changes to societies and environments within a global context. Deploying a broad array of disciplinary approaches, students engage with debates about the legacies of European imperialism, postcolonial development, contemporary globalization, persistent authoritarianism, oil dependency, intensive militarization, and seemingly endemic terrorism."	HIST	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
MIST 351	The Israel/Palestine Conflict	"Focuses on the longstanding struggle between Israelis and Palestinians, as well as on the history of the way the conflict has been defined (e.g., an Arab-Israeli conflict, a religious war between Jews and Muslims, etc.). The course profiles episodes in the history of the conflict--and of the efforts to resolve it--in light of contemporary developments across the globe. The war of 1948 is analyzed in light of decolonization struggles following WWII, just as the ""Six-Day War"" of 1967 is studied in light of Cold War politics. In addition to focusing on flashpoints in the history of the conflict, the course also examines international agendas for ending it. Repeated US efforts to broker a peace are analyzed in light of geopolitical developments elsewhere. Students will become well-versed in the historical and social developments of the conflict and study the various treaties, armistice agreements, and memoranda that have guided efforts to bring it to a conclusion. They also study outstanding issues in the contest between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as current peace and armistice proposals."	HIST	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
MIST 390	The Endless War on Terror	"In 2013, President Obama announced an end to the so-called ""Global War on Terror"" (GWOT), marking an official shift in the rhetoric of American foreign policy. Yet has the GWOT ended, or merely transformed into a normalization of endless war and expanding militarization, both domestically and abroad? This course explores the post-9/11 era's fluctuation constructions and mediations of ""terrorism"" in critical, comparative, and transnational perspectives, including: the rise of the military-entertainment -industrial complex, public diplomacy campaigns, academia's role in increasingly militarized domestic policy, propaganda production and political persuasion by the United States, as well as its allies and enemies, both states and Non-State Armed Groups (NSAGs) . Particular attention is given to the transformation of identity configurations in local, national, and global contexts, as well as the shifting parameters of transnational community in an age of digital media and endless war ."	HIST	3	One 100-Level course in MIST or FMST			
MIST 401	Topics in Arabic Lang/Cult I	"MIST 401 and MIST 402 comprise a year-long course sequence aimed at moving students from the Advanced-Low level of proficiency towards the Superior one. Six themes (three in each semester) are selected to represent a wide range of topics that are highly discussed among Arabs and non-Arabs in today’s world. These themes enable students to further develop their abilities to extract essential information and identify linguistic nuances in the four skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) as well as further deepen their understanding of Arab cultures. The courses are designed in accordance with the latest pedagogical philosophy and in light of the national standard guidelines and best practices in teaching Arabic a foreign language. The only language allowed in class is Arabic."	HIST	3	MIST 302		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 402	Topics in Arabic Lang/Cult II	"MIST 401 and MIST 402 comprise a year-long course sequence aimed at moving students from the Advanced-Low level of proficiency towards the Superior one. Six themes (three in each semester) are selected to represent a wide range of topics that are highly discussed among Arabs and non-Arabs in today’s world. These themes enable students to further develop their abilities to extract essential information and identify linguistic nuances in the four skills (listening, speaking, reading, and writing) as well as further deepen their understanding of Arab cultures. The courses are designed in accordance with the latest pedagogical philosophy and in light of the national standard guidelines and best practices in teaching Arabic a foreign language. The only language allowed in class is Arabic."	HIST	3	MIST 401		Human Thought and Expression	
MIST 491	Indp: Honors Thesis	"Opportunity for individual study in areas not covered by formal course offerings, under the guidance of a member of the faculty."	HIST	3				
MUSE 120	Introduction to Museum Studies	"Introduces students to the rich interdisciplinary array of historical, theoretical, and practical topics that comprise this fast-growing field. Major themes include the history of museums from cabinets of curiosity to the Museum of Modern Art; the post-colonial critique of museums; and the practical aspects of museum management, education, and curating."	ARTS	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSE 201	Museum Curating in Digital Age	"Examines how advancements in digital technologies (e.g. 3D scanning, VR, online collections searches, digital publishing) have impacted the discourse, methods, and practices of museum curating. Through weekly readings and discussions, students engage critically with questions surrounding the use of digital technologies for enhancing museum exhibitions, collection access, and visitor engagement in twenty-first century museums, while developing an understanding of the practical implications of curating for both physical and virtual audiences. Students apply this knowledge while conducting research on objects from University collections, writing interpretive texts, and designing digital resources. Students are responsible for curating a digital exhibition together, based on the exhibition at the Picker Art Gallery and evaluating the needs of the museum to propose, develop, and prototype a digital curatorial project."	ARTS	3	MUSE 120 or HIST 120 or MUSE 300 or ANTH 300 or ARTS 270		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSE 219	Healing Arts: The Idea of Africa in Medicine and Museums	"Explores the relationship between African arts, museums, and medicinal and public health systems. Students examine the role played by museums in crafting knowledge and perceptions of African arts through the use of and display of certain objects/subjects and the intersections of those understandings with concepts (and interpretations) of health. The over-arching goal of the course is for students to become critical readers of 'Africa', and the 'Idea' of Africa, in museums and in medicine, and through the use of material culture and ethnographic collections."	ARTS	3				
MUSE 300	Museum Curating	"Examines historic and contemporary curatorial methods while exploring ways to apply these methods appropriately in the development of a current exhibition. Students build on their understanding of the theoretical and ethical issues in museums while engaging with the practical challenges confronted by museum curators, such as complicated museum legacies, curatorial voice, collaboration, and accessible design. Students apply this knowledge while conducting object-based research, designing displays, and writing interpretive texts."	ARTS	3	ARTS 120 or HIST 120 or ARTS 270 or ANTH 300 or MUSE 120 or ARTS 255		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSE PRAC	Museum Studies Practicum	"The Practicum in Museum Studies is an opportunity for students to gain hands-on experience in a non-profit museum, gallery, cultural center, or historical society. This may take the form of paid or volunteer work or an internship, and must be at least 140 hours in duration. It is expected that the practicum will deepen the student’s understanding of a substantive aspect or aspects of the institution’s operations through work in a department such as Curatorial, Development, Education, Collections Management, Communications, or Archives."	ARTS	0				
MUSI 101	The Beatles	"In the sixties, the Beatles revolutionized popular music. This course is an in-depth study of the music of the Beatles with a focus on songwriting. The goals are to learn how to analyze their songs, to gain insights into their music and lyrics, to understand why they were so successful and to think critically about music. Issues of the significance of rock on the culture and history of the sixties are also discussed."	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 103	Basic Music and Songwriting (TH)	"Introduces students to the fundamental elements of music theory through performance, songwriting, and analysis. While focusing primarily on Western art music (""classical music""), popular song, and jazz, these broad categories represent the roots of many specific genres. Consequently, the practical techniques learned can be applied to many styles. In addition to written and aural assessments, students perform keyboard hearings and compose several short pieces, culminating in the composition of an original song. (TH)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	Students who have taken private lessons or have high school music performance experience should take MUSI 203
MUSI 111	The History of Rock (H&A)	"Rock is a dominant force, a phenomenon. It began as the language of youth and grew to its present centrality. This music course examines innovative songs and artists, primarily from the `50s through the `70s, the era of classic rock. The goals of the course are to broaden students' knowledge of rock history for this period, to gain insights into the music and lyrics, to learn how to listen and analyze music, and to think critically. Since rock reflected 20th-century society, broad issues of culture, art, and history are also discussed. (H&A)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 141	Traditions of Catholic Music	"A survey of liturgical and paraliturgical music of the Roman Catholic tradition from c. 800 A.D. to present times, considered from purely musical but also liturgical and theological perspectives. Students learn to distinguish by ear plainchant, classic polyphony, operatic-symphonic, and popular idioms (including some of non-western cultures) as well as the history of each. The course also covers the principal liturgies of the Roman rite and some of the more important 20th-century legislation regarding liturgical music. This is an 8-week course. (H&A)"	MUSI	1				
MUSI 151	The Musical Experience (H&A)	"An introduction designed to acquaint the listener with some of the masterpieces of Western classical music and beyond, and to develop an awareness of the role of musical elements, such as melody and orchestration, in the works studied. While it is not expected that students have played an instrument or read music, the course does attempt to develop some skills in score reading, notation, and close listening. (H&A)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 161	The History of Jazz (H&A)	"A study of American jazz from 1920 to the present, through readings, intensive study of recordings, and class lectures. Several topics are studied in depth: listening skills, the quality of swing, group interaction, the development of solo improvisation, the blues, and the evolution of jazz performance practice. Important composers, bands, and soloists are highlighted, including Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington, Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, and the Miles Davis groups. (H&A)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 203	Harmony I (TH)	"An introduction to the harmonic language of Bach, Beethoven and the Beatles. Students learn to make basic chords and coordinate them with melodies to create sensible progressions in all keys. The course includes ear-training skills. (TH)"	MUSI	3	Music background required		Human Thought and Expression	Students considering a major or minor in music should take this course as soon as possible.
MUSI 204	Harmony II (TH)	A continuation of Harmony I. The first part of the course is an intensive review of harmonic principles that develops greater fluency with them. The second part covers chromatic harmony and completes the chord grammar begun in Harmony I. The third part applies all the harmonic principles in an extensive analysis of a major composition such as a Beethoven symphony. Laboratory time devoted to ear training is required as in Harmony I. (TH)	MUSI	3	MUSI 203		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 205	Popular Songwriting Workshop	"A study of the compositional techniques employed in popular songwriting with the goal of writing three fully formed original works that combine music and lyrics. The course will cover pop introductions, endings, standard popular chord progressions, melodic construction, forms & structure, and lyric writing. In addition to various composition assignments, activities include analysis of classic and contemporary pop songs by Ed Sheeran, John Legend, The Beatles, Stevie Wonder and others. Students must be able to read and write music as well as possess knowledge of basic chord structures and major and minor scales. The mid-term and final projects will be performed and recorded at a basic demo level. (TH)"	MUSI	3	Performance experience required		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 208	Jazz Theory and Improvisation (PF)	"Offers the study of basic jazz theory and its application in jazz improvisation. Topics include reading lead sheets, extended chords, chord/scale relationships, standard jazz forms, phrasing, musical line construction and development, tension and release techniques, arranging, transcription, and ear training. Students learn to improvise with pre-recorded rhythm section tracks. Assignments include written and performance exercises."	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	Previous completion of MUSI 203 is recommended.
MUSI 215	Music History I: Medieval through Baroque Periods (H&A)	"A survey of music history from Gregorian chant to Bach and Vivaldi. Music is studied both by itself and within its contemporary social context. Major genres, styles, and techniques of musical composition are discussed in both analytical and historical perspectives, through the study of representative works. (H&A)"	MUSI	3	Music background preferred	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 216	Music History II: Classic through Modern Periods (H&A)	"A survey of music history from the era of Mozart and Beethoven to the present. Major genres, styles, and techniques of musical composition are discussed in both analytical and historical perspectives, and alongside contemporary social, political, and artistic trends. (H&A)"	MUSI	3	Performance experience required	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 217	Chamber Music I (PF)	"The Hudson Chamber Players (strings, pianists, winds) explore and perform a diverse chamber music repertoire in 4-5 yearly concerts, both on and off campus. A bi-yearly concert tour features series concerts, outreach activities and repertoire research. Unless separated by off-campus study, two consecutive terms are required for a student to receive a single credit. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 220	Digital Music Studio (TH)	"Workshop that provides an introduction to the modern digital studio. Students learn mixing and signal processing techniques in a Digital Audio Workstation (DAW), analog and digital synthesis, and the mastering process to develop skills in writing, recording, and editing digital music to meet current industry standards. In addition to creating original tracks, students are assessed on studio terminology and their ability to identify common audio routing techniques in the work of other musicians, producers, and engineers. (TH)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 221	World Music (H&A)	"A study of music as a cultural phenomenon. The course examines how music relates to many aspects of life, identifies social classes, embodies political issues, shapes ceremonial practices and creates cultural identity. Students attend extra musical events during the term and complete listening assignments. No musical experience is necessary. (H&A)"	MUSI	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 230	University Orchestra I (PF)	"The 68-member student and professional orchestra offers four major concerts on the music department concert series every year. With the same wide-ranging repertoire of any major urban professional orchestra students learn about the works technically, stylistically, and historically. To earn credit, a student must take two consecutive terms. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 232	Hudson Concert Jazz Ensemble I (PF)	"The ensemble introduces basic elements of jazz improvisation (blues) and includes interaction with nationally and internationally recognized guest artists. Students perform works by the top contemporary jazz writers as well as classic charts from the standard big band repertoire including Bob Mintzer, Thad Jones, Shelly Berg, Bill Holman, Sammy Nestico, Count Basie and Duke Ellington. Participation in two consecutive terms is required in order to receive a single credit. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 234	University Chorus I (PF)	"A performance course in choral music. The University Chorus rehearses and performs a diverse repertoire of choral masterworks, often with an accompanying guest orchestra. Unless separated by off-campus study, two consecutive terms are required in order to receive a single credit. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 236	Private Instruction I (PF)	Private study in voice or musical instruments is offered to advanced students. The course consists of one-hour lessons each week during the term and may include a public performance. (PF)	MUSI	3	Student must have studied at Hudson with their studio instructor for at least two semesters before applying to take lessons for credit. Proposal required.		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 238	Music Extended Study	"One of the most challenging and rewarding aspects of studying and performing music is understanding the historical and cultural context, particularly that of music composed several hundred years ago. This extended study offers an opportunity to gain deeper understanding of the historical and cultural context of the course subject material primarily through rehearsals and performances in the region(s) where the composers lived and worked. Students become deeply and intimately engaged in the course subject material by performing it numerous times and continually refining their work for varied performance venues. Additionally, students participate in lectures and visits to historical/cultural sites to further connect the music being performed to the region of origin. Varying topics & destinations. All students must participate in the ensemble throughout the semester immediately preceding the extended study."	MUSI	1	"Participation in ensemble for the two semesters immediately preceding the extended study, unless separated by off-campus study"		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 245	Composition (TH)	"Students learn to compose for acoustic instruments. Through a survey of 20th-century repertoire ranging from Stravinsky to Leonard Bernstein to John Williams and beyond, students discover what makes a melody memorable, the expressive power that can be drawn from harmony, and essential post-tonal idioms that have resonated with audiences in the concert hall and the cinema. Over the course of the semester, students explore these techniques by composing several short pieces before composing a complete work for chamber ensemble. These pieces are then performed in a public concert at the end of the semester. (TH)"	MUSI	3	MUSI 103 or MUSI 203		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 301	Criticizing Music (TH)	"Can music be evaluated (criticized) rationally and objectively? After a review of traditional harmonic theory, the course covers critical theories of the 20th century, which students then apply to compositions of Western masters ranging from Bach to Brahms in order to test their claims. The course concludes with students’ own critical evaluations of an important composition. (TH)"	MUSI	3	MUSI 204		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 302	Composition/Histor Styles	"In this course, students study music history by trying to imitate the composers that made the history. During the term, students complete a Renaissance motet, a fugue in the style of Bach, a sonata movement in the style of Mozart, and a prelude in the style of Chopin. (TH)"	MUSI	3	MUSI 204		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 317	Chamber Music II (PF)	"The Hudson Chamber Players (strings, pianists, winds) explore and perform a diverse and rich chamber music repertoire in 4-5 yearly concerts, both on and off campus. A bi-yearly concert tour features series concerts, outreach activities and repertoire research. Unless separated by off-campus study, two consecutive terms are required for a student to receive a single credit. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 320	Music for Multimedia	"An advanced workshop seminar in which students learn to compose and produce music for passive and interactive media. Course topics include sample library realization, coding interactive sound in real and virtual spaces, and post-production procedures for contemporary physical formats and digital codecs. Students must demonstrate proficiency in a DAW or notation software."	MUSI	3	MUSI 220 or MUSI 245		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 321	Explorations in Global Music (H&A)	"It is often said that “music is a universal language,” but how true is it? Students explore the “language” of music around the globe from the perspectives of sound, culture, history, and basic principles to shed light on what music means, what it sounds like, and how it functions (theoretically and socially) within different musical-cultural contexts. Through lectures, discussions, practical workshops, and performances, students examine traditional music, popular styles, and modern changes in regions such as Korea, Indonesia, Sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, and China with the goals of thinking critically and analytically about music while understanding its relevance within specific cultures."	MUSI	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 330	University Orchestra II (PF)	"The 68-member student and professional orchestra offers four major concerts on the music department concert series every year. With the same wide-ranging repertoire of any major urban professional orchestra students learn about the works technically, stylistically, and historically. To earn credit, a student must take two consecutive terms. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 332	Jazz Performance II	"The ensemble introduces basic elements of jazz improvisation (blues) and includes interaction with nationally and internationally recognized guest artists. Students perform works by the top contemporary jazz writers as well as classic charts from the standard big band repertoire including Bob Mintzer, Thad Jones, Shelly Berg, Bill Holman, Sammy Nestico, Count Basie and Duke Ellington. Participation in two consecutive terms is required in order to receive a single credit. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 334	University Chorus II (PF)	"A performance course in choral music. The University Chorus rehearses and performs a diverse repertoire of choral masterworks, often with an accompanying guest orchestra. Unless separated by off-campus study, two consecutive terms are required in order to receive a single credit. (PF)"	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 336	Private Instruction II (PF)	Private study in voice or musical instruments is offered to advanced students. The course consists of one-hour lessons each week during the term and may include a public performance. (PF)	MUSI	3	Student must have studied at Hudson with their studio instructor for at least two semesters before applying to take lessons for credit. Proposal required.		Human Thought and Expression	
MUSI 470	Senior Seminar	"Offered as an independent study, this course is required for honors or high honors in music. Taken in the senior year, study may be in whatever the student and faculty adviser regard as the student's major musical strength."	MUSI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
NAST 209	Indigenous Education	"Focuses on Indigenous education in North America by exploring traditional Indigenous ways of knowing; the origins, development, decline, and legacy of the residential and boarding school systems; importance of language revitalization and contemporary knowledge dissemination. Topics/themes include colonization, treaties, justice, truth and reconciliation, Indigenous leadership, and Indigenous resistance."	SOAN	3				
NAST 210	Indigenous Peoples Today	"Introduce students to a variety of contemporary Indigenous issues and to the historic foundations of these issues. Several themes are covered, including land and property, environment, school and education, storytelling, and decolonization. Students use discussion periods to analyze readings and videos, while also reflecting on their own lives and their role in making positive changes."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
NAST 243	Native American History	"Typically, American history is told from the perspective of European colonizers, with the story beginning on the east coast and expanding west across the continent. How does American history look different when we reverse this perspective and put the continent's original people at the center of the story? What has been the experience of America's Indigenous people, both before and after European contact? And why is this history essential for understanding the world we live in today? With these questions in mind, students will examine the history of indigenous peoples in what is now the United States from 1492 to the present day. Particular focus will be placed on Native Americans' history of adaptation and resilience in the face of European and American colonialism."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
NAST 300	Continuity in Pueblo Communities	"Focusing on the words from people within the 19 Pueblos of New Mexico, this course introduces students to the Pueblo worldview. Students listen to a variety of voices--poets, storytellers, educators, artists--as they seek to understand interdependence, complementarity, and the vital interconnections across past and present that are held within specific places. As preparation for the Santa Fe study group, this course also enables students to prepare for their service learning work in the pueblos or at the Santa Fe Indian School."	SOAN	1				
NAST 320	Native Peoples and Modern Law	"Explores the role of native peoples in the creation and ongoing development of modern law. It begins with an investigation of the use of native peoples as a representation of human savagery within early modern European political thought — a representation that allowed political theorists to depict law as a solution to such savagery. More recently, and more positively, it explores the important role that indigenous peoples have played in the propagation of religious free exercise rights and international human rights law. Focusing particularly on the legal negotiation of Native religious practices in the US, this course encourages students to think critically about some of the most basic tenets and mechanisms of modern secular law."	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
NAST 356	Global Indigenous History	"Indigenous communities exist throughout the world, but rarely is their history approached in global terms. What does ""indigenous"" mean, and how does world history look different when approached from the perspective of indigenous people? How does such an approach change the way we think about our national stories, and why does that matter? With these questions in mind, students explore the history of indigenous peoples from around the world, including communities in the United States, Latin America, Pacific island nations, Canada, and Australia. By examining these diverse people's experiences with outside colonization from the 15th century to the present, students are offered new perspectives on ongoing histories of colonialism, resistance, adaptation, and cultural resilience."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
NAST 360	Borderlands of North America	"Instead of looking at history from the vantage of national centers, borderlands history focuses on the complicated places where empires, nations, and Indigenous peoples have collided, converged, and overlapped over time. Borderlands were—and continue to be—perplexing places, where national identities and boundaries often held little sway, and where marginalized peoples sought to forge new paths. A focus on borderlands has the power to change our perspective on the history of North America, and to lend insight into the complex politics that define the border up to the present day, including heated debates over migration and the building of border walls. With this in mind, students examine the history of Indigenous, U.S.-Mexican, U.S-Canadian, and imperial borderlands from the 16th through the 21st centuries, including their political, social, and environmental dimensions. (TR)"	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
NAST 591	Indigenous Education		SOAN	3				
NEUR 170	Introduction to Neuroscience	"In this introduction to the neuroscience major, relationships between brain and behavior are examined at a variety of levels, including neurochemical, neurophysiological, physiological, and cognitive functioning. This course does not normally count towards the psychological science major."	PBSC	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	"AP Chemistry or Biology, CHEM 101/111, BIOL 101, or BIOL 182 is strongly recommended. Prospective neuroscience majors should complete this course by the end of the sophomore year."
NEUR 201	Strategies & Discoveries in Systems Neuroscience	"This intermediate-level course approaches the study of neuroscience through a critical analysis and interpretation of primary literature, experimental design and execution, general quantitative analysis, and effective communication of ideas (both written and oral formats). This course offers a unique opportunity for students to understand a variety of concepts and challenges within systems neuroscience through the lens of the scientific process."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 202	Strategies & Discoveries in Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience	"This intermediate-level course approaches the study of neuroscience through a critical analysis and interpretation of primary literature, experimental design and execution, general quantitative analysis, and effective communication of ideas (both written and oral formats). This course offers a unique opportunity for students to understand a variety of concepts and challenges within cellular & molecular neuroscience through the lens of the scientific process."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170 and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 300NE	Topics in Neuroscience: The Embodied Mind	An intermediate-level course in specific neuroscience topics offered by various staff members. Students should contact the department regarding the topics offered during any given term.	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (PSYC 200 or NEUR 201 or NEUR 202)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 344	Our Sensational Mind: The Physiology and Philosophy of Perception	"Some form of conscious sensory perception-seeing, hearing, or smelling the world around us-marks all of our waking moments. Sensory perceptions enable us to investigate, navigate, and take action in the world. This course investigates perceptions themselves, and asks empirical and philosophical questions about them. How are they produced? Can they be shared? When and why are they unreliable?"	PBSC	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 353	Visual Perception and Cognition	"Our everyday visual experiences typically yield a sense of certainty in that we believe we are operating directly from information in the world around us. Despite such a belief, many of our decisions and actions depend on perceptual inferences derived from our internalized representations of external information. Put another way, many of our decisions and subsequent actions are the direct result of our brains making guesses based on fabricated information. The purpose of this course is to explore how perceptual and cognitive processes act to formulate low- and high-level visual representations of the physical world, and how those representations inform (and are informed by) our knowledge of the world. The vast majority of the readings for this course employ behavioral paradigms that target the neurological (functional) underpinnings associated with visual representations and knowledge structures. Therefore, it contains a mix of both behavioral and neurophysiological components (with an emphasis on functional neuroscience)."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 200 is recommended.
NEUR 355	Language and Thought	"Language is a distinctive human ability that distances humans from the rest of the animal kingdom - including chimpanzees, with whom people share 98 percent of the same genetic inheritance. Although language is considered as primarily serving communication in its advanced form, it is also an important vehicle for thought, with the potential to extend, refine, and direct thinking. The interaction of language with other cognitive abilities is the central focus of the course. Students compare the communication systems of other species with human language, examine efforts to teach human language to apes, learn how psycholinguists conceptualize and investigate language-mind relationships, and inquire into the cognitive abilities of various types of language users, such as bilinguals and deaf and hearing signers. Attention also is given to evolutionary changes in the neural structures implicated in human language and to neural processes constraining the developmental course of language acquisition."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (PSYC 200 or NEUR 201 or NEUR 202)	Global Engagements	Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 374	Computational Neuroscience	"Computational neuroscience is one of the fastest growing fields in neuroscience. By itself, it is a field that is largely concerned with using computational modeling and advanced data analysis techniques to evaluate and extend critical concepts in neuroscience. This course is therefore designed as an introduction to modeling methods and advanced data analysis in cellular and systems neuroscience. Through in-class instruction and computational programming exercises, students explore the use of numerical simulation for modeling the electrical properties of neuron membrane channels, single cells, and a variety of processes within micro­ and macro-scale neural networks."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 375	Cognitive Neuroscience	"Cognitive neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field - drawing from chemistry, biology, medicine, neuroscience, psychology and philosophy - that explores the relationship between the mind and the brain. The scope of this course is broad, focusing on brain mechanisms for such diverse processes as sensation and perception, attention, memory, emotion, language, and consciousness. Students read primary journal articles on case studies from the clinical literature of patients with localized brain damage and reports from the experimental and neuroimaging literature on the effects of invasive and noninvasive manipulations in normal subjects. Mind-brain relationships are considered in the context of cognitive theories, evolutionary comparisons, and human development."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 200 is recommended.
NEUR 376	Functional Neuroanatomy and Neural Development	"The first quarter of the course focuses on mechanisms of neural development including proliferation of stem cells, migration, differentiation, and synapse formation. The latter portion of the course examines the function of neuroanatomical regions and their relationship to the variety of symptoms associated with schizophrenia. As the more overt symptoms of schizophrenia do not appear until late adolescence, knowing how and when various regions of the brain develop is essential for understanding the emergence of various neurological deficits in this disease."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and BIOL 182 and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 377	Psychopharmacology	"Discussion of the effects of drugs upon psychological processes and behavior in humans. Readings in the textbook treat the mechanisms of action (physiological and neurochemical) of various classes of drugs used in therapy or ""on the street."" Readings in professional journals illustrate the experimental study of drug effects in humans and in animals."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 378	Topics in Neuroscience: Neuroscience of Reward and Motivation	"Covers a range of topics related to the reward system: its importance in motivation, reward-related learning and maladaptive behaviors such as addiction, gambling, eating disorders, avolition, self-injurious behaviors etc. Students read and discuss scientific articles pertaining to basic mechanisms, circuitries and neuroplasticity underlying reward-related learning and maladaptive motivated behaviors."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 379	Fundamentals of Neurochemistry/Neuropharmacology	"Focuses on two diseases: relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and idiopathic Alzheimer's disease. The initial portion of the course examines the various methods neurochemists utilize to answer questions about these two diseases. The remainder of the course focuses on the epidemiological, neuroanatomical, cellular, biochemical, and molecular aspects of the two diseases. Multiple sclerosis is a more intercellular question examining the interaction of immune cells and the glia of the nervous system whereas Alzheimer's disease tends to focus more on intracellular mechanisms leading to the synthesis of beta-amyloid and the formation of neurofibrillary tangles, the two hallmarks of this disease."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and BIOL 182 and CHEM 263 and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 379L	Fundamentals of Neurochemistry/Neuropharmacology Lab	Required corequisite to NEUR 379.	PBSC	0			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 381	Behavioral Genetics	"An introduction which demonstrates that nature and nurture both play a fundamental role in the development of behavioral traits; and how genes interact with the environment to shape the development of various behavioral traits. The course uses an interdisciplinary approach that integrates the studies in genetics, neuroscience, and behavior; with a comparative approach to explore human and other animal models; and cover the traditional behavioral genetic methodologies as well as modern molecular genetic techniques."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 384	Fundamentals of Neurophysiology	"This seminar and laboratory course examines the physiology of the nervous system. Topics include ion channel structure and function, synaptic transmission, second messenger systems, neuromodulation, the neurophysiological basis of behavior in ""simple"" animals, the evolution of neural circuits, the cellular basis of learning and memory, and the cellular basis of selected human nervous system diseases."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 275 or BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 385	Neuroethology	"Neuroethology is a sub-field of neuroscience focused on the study of the neural basis of natural behavior. Many types of behavior and a wide array of animals are studied, and the approach is often comparative and evolutionary. Students delve into the neuroethological literature, examining the neural basis of animal communication, navigation, movement, sensory processing, feeding, aggression, and learning."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 275 or BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 309 or BIOL 320 (formerly BIOL 220) is recommended.
NEUR 385L	Neuroethology Lab	Required corequisite to NEUR 385. Laboratory exercises teach methods of behavioral analysis and electrophysiological recording techniques.	PBSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 389	Molecular Neurobiology	"Examines the cell biology behind the functioning of the nervous system. Students explore how cells make fate decisions during neural development, how neurons elaborate the complex structures they take on, how they form and refine specific connections, and how these together allow the precise transmissions of complex signals. Students also examine the molecular pathways by which sensory systems transduce physical stimuli into electrochemical signals and integrate that information into the nervous system."	PBSC	3	BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 498	Senior Thesis	"Neuroscience majors plan and carry out one-term experimental research projects under the guidance of faculty members in the neuroscience program; such students enroll in NEUR 498 in either the fall or spring. For students who wish to be considered for honors, two-term thesis projects are required; such students enroll in NEUR 498 in the fall and NEUR 499 in the spring. On occasion, students who are not pursuing honors or high honors may complete two semesters of senior research by taking NEUR 498 in the fall and NEUR 499 in the spring. With permission, PSYC 450, when appropriate, may be substituted for 498."	PBSC	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
NEUR 499	Senior Thesis	"Neuroscience majors plan and carry out one-term experimental research projects under the guidance of faculty members in the neuroscience program; such students enroll in NEUR 498 in either the fall or spring. For students who wish to be considered for honors, two-term thesis projects are required; such students enroll in NEUR 498 in the fall and NEUR 499 in the spring. On occasion, students who are not pursuing honors or high honors may complete two semesters of senior research by taking NEUR 498 in the fall and NEUR 499 in the spring. With permission, PSYC 450, when appropriate, may be substituted for 498."	PBSC	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PCON 111	Introduction to Peace and Conflict Studies	"Provides an introduction to the interdisciplinary study of peace and conflict, as well as to the peace and conflict studies major. Focuses on attempts to study and explain the evolution of warfare and the dynamics of peace from the early Modern period to today's most imminent and controversial security issues. Students explore the relationships between global and historical patterns of mass violence, the theoretical paradigms that attempt to account for these patterns, and the various disciplinary and methodological approaches used to explore war and peace at all levels of analysis."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 218	Practices of Peace and Conflict: War in Lived Experience	"Introduces students to a range of approaches and problems in the descriptive analysis of peace and conflict. Students juxtapose core theoretical texts on war and violence from the social and human sciences with detailed ethnographic case studies. Practices of contemporary conflict are paired with the interpretive paradigms whose aim is to understand and resolve them. For example, case studies in terror are paired with the field of trauma studies; specific regional conflicts with theories of global networks; and contemporary mass violence with analysis of genocide perpetration. In the process, introduces students to important methodological paradigms from the social sciences, chiefly from anthropology, sociology, and geography, as well as humanities-based approaches from comparative religion, literature, and language studies."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 218R	SRS: Research & Reflection		PSCI	1				
PCON 225	"Theories of Peace and Conflict: War, State, and Society"	"Examines problems of institutional systems and the articulation of power. Students are introduced to critical evaluation of the major theoretical approaches to the study of power and politics. Students consider rationalist, functionalist, and interpretive approaches in the social sciences, as they relate to questions of peace and conflict. Students examine the specific operative theories that have emerged out of these intellectual traditions - theories of state formation, security, international norms, and transnational networks - as they have been incorporated into and further developed in the study of peace and conflict. Students test major theories on case studies linked to major world events. For example, deterrence theory is examined in light of the end of the Cold War."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 235	"Conf, Peace &Soc Just Ltn Amer"	"Many people in Latin America today live under a type of 'violent peace.' Although states are not at war with one another formally, the means of coercion, destruction, and militarization have not receded despite several ""waves of democratization,"" and in fact, these have become normalized or concealed in everyday relations. This interdisciplinary course centers on a comparative, thematic, and chronological study of Latin America and the Caribbean to understand the meanings and forms of violence, methods and challenges of promoting justice, and attempts to build peace. Developing complex and multidimensional approaches to peace and conflict issues in this particular region will help to build knowledge that may be applicable more broadly."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements		
PCON 241	Troublemakers or Peacemakers?	"On March 10, 2020, the U.S. “Youth, Peace, & Security” (YPS) Act was introduced into the House of Representatives with broad support from peacebuilding organizations. Building off of the international United Nations YPS Agenda, this bill is intended “to support the inclusive and meaningful participation of youth in peace building and conflict prevention, management, and resolution.” But, is all of this attention on “youth” actually warranted? More importantly, is this attention good for young people both in the United States and globally? While monitoring public reactions to this legislation as they occur in real-time right now, this course will also examine the historical context of the shifting politics of recognition related to youthhood/childhood over the course of the Cold War and its aftermath. Through an investigation of age-based, racialized, gendered, imperial, and other dynamics, students will explore which populations have gotten categorized as (vulnerable) “children” or (dangerous) “youth” in U.S. foreign policy and larger international UN security and peacebuilding agendas."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 245	"Organizing War: Military Organization, Culture, and Thought Since the Beginning of the Modern Age"	"How are modern militaries built and how does it impact their world – and ours? Students discuss major themes from the first precursors of modern military organization to contemporary conflicts, with a focus on military organization. Students explore how and why militaries change and adapt – or fail to – and ask what exactly they are meant to do in the first place. Special focus is given to the interrelatedness of military organization and cultural, social, and economic factors. Part of our challenge is to try and understand the nature of the relationship among these factors. On the way, students gain literacy in major topics in military studies as well as major issues in current military policymaking."	PSCI	3				
PCON 260	Gender in Peace and Conflict	"Aims to make a feminist sense of contemporary wars and conflicts. Students trace the gendered processes of defining citizenship, national identity and security, and examine the role of the military in the construction of femininity and masculinity. One of the most prominent social constructions of gender is that of the male provider/warrior and the female caregiver/peacemaker. The making of war depends in large part on the maintenance of this simplistic conceptualization. In addition, the inequalities and power imbalances that lead to situations of conflict, at both macro- and micro-levels, reflect and reinforce the structural and discursive inequality between men and women. The class is interdisciplinary and gives equal weight to theory and practice while drawing on writings by local and global activists."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements		
PCON 301	Int'l Human Rights & Advocacy	"The gap between the promise of international human rights law and its actual practice is vast. For many advocates and activists, the gap is a source of frustration as international human rights laws and norms rarely translate into basic protections at the level of the individual. This course is designed to make students aware of the contentious nature of human rights, both in theory and in practice. It is premised on the idea that human rights are constantly claimed and developed, if not made anew, by multiple actors--whether as rights-holders, advocates, or otherwise, and that this takes place in the context of intense struggle between state and non-state actors. Students examine both the international human rights regime and the struggle for human rights, and how they interact in practice. The course takes a purposeful right-based and victim-centered approach, with the goal of introducing students to the profession of human rights advocacy."	PSCI	3	PCON 111 or PCON 218 or ANTH 218 or PCON 225			
PCON 303	The Camp: A Global History of Civilian Internment	"Reviews a history of civilian internment by analyzing the geographic proliferation of camps throughout the planet. In modern and contemporary history, authoritarian states and democracies alike have developed concentration camps, internment camps, refugee camps, detention camps, and displaced persons camps -- in ever increasing numbers. Countries have done so in order to separate and define populations they would or could not assimilate within the political life of the nation state, thereby relegating those populations to an exceptional status instead. To study the geographic spread of camps as technologies for advancing a state of exception, then, is to learn how –and to what extent-- human rights have been acknowledged or betrayed in contemporary history."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 304	"Criminal Underworld: Drugs, Guns, Bodies"	"Examines the violent networks of the illicit global economy: from guns and drugs smuggling, to human trafficking and animal poaching among others. Drawing from multiple scholarly traditions, it compares the concrete geographical organization of these illicit networks - that is, where and how they become grounded - and asks the following questions: What are the relationships of these illegal activities to legal circuits of power and profit? In what ways are transnational criminal networks redefining the nature of contemporary violence and the meaning of peace?"	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 310	Geopolitics	"Broadly defined, Geopolitics is the study of ""the relationship among politics and geography, demography, and economics, especially with respect to the foreign policy of a nation."" As the study of political geography on a global scale, geopolitics examines the relationship between territories, boundaries, and states in the ""closed system"" we call planet earth. But geopolitics is more than an academic field. Geopolitical thought has actually instructed states how to relate to one another in the contest for territory, security, and resources. For example, the history of geopolitical analysis is closely connected to -- and has often justified -- various imperial projects. As a result, this course examines the relation between the development of geopolitical thought on one hand, and geopolitical events on the other. Of particular importance to the relation between theories of geopolitics and the actual geostrategies of states has been the development of conflict on a planetary scale. And so, this course traces that relation through the study of geopolitical thought and practice in the course of imperial struggles in the 19th century, World Wars and the threat of nuclear wars in the 20th, and new global challenges such as resource wars and environmental security in our own time."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 314	Media War: Peace and Conflict in the Digital Age	"The first purpose of the course is to demonstrate the central importance of media in defining the reality of war, peace, and violence in modern culture. The second goal is to introduce, in a selective manner, film, art, and written works that shaped these definitions. The primary framework is chronological, beginning with a survey of images of war and peace in art, covering in detail World War I and World War II, and ending with current images of war and of preparations for nuclear war. The secondary framework distinguishes types or degrees of war: World War I and World War II, civil wars (Spain) and genocide (the Armenians, the Jews in Europe); struggles of national liberation (Vietnam and Algeria); and prospects of global holocaust, this last creating new imagery - both positive and negative - in art, poetry, fiction, and film."	PSCI	3				
PCON 322	Weapons and War: Interdisciplinary Perspectives	"Mustard gas, airpower, submarines, A-bombs, Agent Orange, landmines, terror wars, ""Star Wars"": weapons technology profoundly shaped the science, politics, and culture of the last century. This course explores the myriad effects of the production, deployment, and use of weapons. Specifically, the course considers how the horizons of science and technology have been shaped by the quest for ever-more-powerful or -sophisticated weaponry; how the creation of new weapons changes the nature of war and peace; how new weapons may impact lives and the planet; terror as a weapon, and scientific and social responses to it; the role of media images in the public consciousness of weaponry and war; and impacts of the global arms trade. While critically theorizing the social, environmental, and philosophical impacts of war over the past century, the course also examines the place of global ethics in discussions about weapons and war."	PSCI	3	or prereq override	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 327	Australia's Stolen Generations: The Legacies of Carrolup (Extended Study)	"The intellectual goal of this extended study course is to address issues of both population vulnerabilities and cultural resilience by considering Aborigines in Australia, and specifically engaging the historical geography and the contemporary experience of the Noongar community in Western Australia. Three themes form the curricular program of the extended study. (1) Students will study the historical geography of Aborigines in Australia within the context of European colonization and settlement, federation and nation-building. These issues will be framed using concepts of population vulnerability, environmental impact, and cultural heritage and identity at the national, regional and local geographic scales. (2) Students study the impacts of national, regional and local policies directed toward indigenous peoples on Aboriginal families and children, given particular focus to programs concerning part-Aboriginal children, Australia's Stolen Generations. (3) Students learn the ways in which Aboriginal culture and ""care for country"" has remained resilient across time, space, and generations."	PSCI	2				
PCON 329	Environmental Security	"The environment poses one of the most important security threats of the 21st century. Taught from an interdisciplinary perspective, this course introduces students to the different ways that climate change and environmental problems more generally are presenting new kinds of security threats. In many ways, greater environmental concern from governments and international organizations over the dramatic environmental changes afoot in the world is a welcome development. But will the ""environmental security"" framework reinforce global inequalities and maintain the status quo? Or might it mean rethinking the very foundations of what we mean by “security”?"	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 340	Terror and Counter - Terror: Histories and Logics of Asymmetric Warfare	"For as long as empires and states have been going to war, people have been fighting them with the tactics and technologies now known as terrorism and guerrilla warfare. Asymmetric warfare, however, is no mere historical artifact. It dominates headlines as much as it confounds leaders around the world. Central to this course are several in depth case studies of counter-insurgency and terrorism, including France in Algeria and Indochina; the British in Malaya, East Africa and Northern Ireland; state terrorism in Latin America during the Cold War; and the United States in the Philippines, Vietnam, and, after September 11, 2001, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq. The evolution of non-state terrorism — from the violent acts of Anarchists in the late 19th Century to the potentially apocalyptic terrorism of radical religious groups the early 21st Century — also comes under scrutiny. From Clausewitz to General Petraeus, from Mao Zedong to Ayman Al-Zawahiri, this class explores how asymmetric war is lived and understood by various observers and participants."	PSCI	3	PCON 111 or PCON 218 or ANTH 218 or PCON 225			
PCON 341	War and the Shaping of American Politics	"Examines the impact of warfare, expansion, and national security policy on the development of domestic American institutions and politics since the Revolution. War's impact has been multifaceted and contradictory, fueling a politics of reaction and repression in many contexts while serving as a catalyst for advances in political, racial, and economic equality and inclusion in others. Students will explore those contradictions by connecting war mobilization and security politics to the trajectory of American political development and state/society relations over time. Topics include: the role of the putatively weak American state in shaping 19th century territorial expansion; the effect of wartime mobilization and participation on racial politics; the interplay of warfare and the welfare state in American history; the postwar politics of the ""military-industrial complex;"" and the impact of foreign policy and national security on the American party system. Readings will engage such topics from the perspective of political scientists, sociologists, and historians working on a broad empirical terrain ranging over several centuries."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 345	Transitional and Historical Justice	"In what ways and under what conditions do states pursue justice for past wrongs? Is democracy credible without confronting the abuses of previous regimes? Do programs for transitional and historical justice unwittingly mask or even perpetuate injustice by recognizing certain types and forms of violence, while ignoring others? Students examine the theories and practices of transitional and historical justice since 1945. A global line-up of case studies are presented, which students evaluate in a comparative framework. Specific topics may include Post-WWII Germany, Latin America, South Africa, Rwanda, Eastern Europe after 1989, Cambodia, Australia, and the United States."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 351	The Israel/Palestine Conflict	"Focuses on the longstanding struggle between Israelis and Palestinians, as well as on the history of the way the conflict has been defined (e.g., an Arab-Israeli conflict, a religious war between Jews and Muslims, etc.). The course profiles episodes in the history of the conflict--and of the efforts to resolve it--in light of contemporary developments across the globe. The war of 1948 is analyzed in light of decolonization struggles following WWII, just as the ""Six-Day War"" of 1967 is studied in light of Cold War politics. In addition to focusing on flashpoints in the history of the conflict, the course also examines international agendas for ending it. Repeated US efforts to broker a peace are analyzed in light of geopolitical developments elsewhere. Students will become well-versed in the historical and social developments of the conflict and study the various treaties, armistice agreements, and memoranda that have guided efforts to bring it to a conclusion. They also study outstanding issues in the contest between Israel and the Palestinian Authority, as well as current peace and armistice proposals."	PSCI	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 358	Transnational Politics	"Examines the segment of world politics that includes interactions and transactions between actors who are not representatives of governments or intergovernmental institutions. Non-state actors as diverse as global social movements, multinational corporations, religious communities, and even terrorist networks are now recognized as playing crucial roles on the world's political stage. This course focuses on a variety of these transnational actors, as we seek to stretch the limits of state-based approaches, and emphasize the rich variety of relationships and interactions that characterizes contemporary world politics."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
PCON 361	The Holocaust in Film	"Explores the history and critical debates surrounding representations of the Holocaust in film, television, and visual culture more broadly across a diverse range of national and historical contexts. It considers the prospects of depicting the Holocaust in a period marked by a decline in the numbers of living historical witnesses and survivors, but a proliferation of historical and artistic representations documenting their experiences. Central to this course are issues pertaining to the aesthetic and ethical challenges of representing those traumas and the potential for addressing contemporary genocide through the lens of the Holocaust."	PSCI	3		Global Engagements		
PCON 361L	Required Film Screening		PSCI	0				
PCON 368	After Genocide:Memory/Repres	"An investigation of the impact of genocide on the self and the imagination's representations in literature, film, and art. Primary texts include poetry, memoir, video testimony, film, and visual art. Scholarly methodology involves readings of literary criticism and theoretical work in the study of trauma, literary theory, and testimony. Among the questions the course asks are: How does trauma shape imagination and open up access to the site of disaster that is now carried in fragments which inform memory? How do representations of violence shape and inflect aesthetic orientations and literary and artistic forms? The course concerns itself with the aftermath of two 20th-century genocides--that of the Armenians in Turkey during World War I and of the Jews in Europe during World War II--both seminal events of the 20th century that, in various ways, became models for ensuing genocides."	PSCI	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PCON 479	"Research Seminar: Peace and Conflict, Themes and Analysis"	"This is a theme-based seminar that examines the literature of peace and conflict studies and other relevant theoretical and analytical work relating to violence and conflict resolution at all levels of society. The seminar also focuses on the range of responses to war and violence, by both the state and the peace movement. Significant independent and group research is required. This course is required of all peace and conflict studies majors and minors in the senior year, but is open to others who meet the prerequisites."	PSCI	3	PCON 111 and (PCON 218 or ANTH 218) and PCON 225			
PCON 479Z	Indp:Research Sem PCON Studies		PSCI	3				
PCON 499	Honors Seminar in Peace and Conflict Studies	"Students qualified to pursue honors or high honors can take this advanced seminar in their spring of the senior year to enhance and extend the thesis they have already begun in PCON 479. Students enrolled in the PCON 499 seminar undertake a process that models the experience of researching, writing, and orally defending a graduate-level master’s thesis of 50 pages or more. Students are expected to enrich the empirical, methodological, and theoretical dimensions of their project, aiming to produce a final piece of research that could be successfully submitted to a peer-reviewed academic journal for publication. At the end of the term, students orally defend their thesis in front of the PCON faculty and other seminar students, responding to questions for approximately a one-hour period. PCON majors and minors who are not pursuing honors may also enroll in this seminar as a PCON elective to conduct independent research by permission of the program director and seminar instructor."	PSCI	3	PCON 479			
PHED 0	Physical Education	"Students register for this section to indicate interest in completing a physical education unit during the term. More information about specific offerings and how to sign up will be communicated to students registered in this section at the start of the term. Students are required to enroll in either gate fitness, activity courses, or discussion courses in order to complete the ten hours necessary to earn one physical education credit. Two physical education Credits are required for degree completion."		0				
PHED 164	Wilderness Adventure (1 unit)			0				
PHIL 101	Introduction to Philosophical Problems	"Acquaints students with the nature of philosophical problems and the means by which one might try to solve them. Readings and discussions are organized around perennial questions regarding the nature of morality and justice, free will, the existence of God, the meaning of life, the nature of knowledge, and the relation between mind and body."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 111	Ethics	"Explores central questions of morality. What makes a good life good? What makes some actions right and others wrong? Are there human rights that everyone has? What are our obligations to others? Are there good answers to these questions, or is it all relative? Among the philosophers explored are Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Bentham, Mill, and various significant contemporary thinkers."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 121	Political Philosophy	"Explores central questions in political philosophy, with an emphasis on the great figures in the tradition (including Plato, Aristotle, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Hegel, and Marx). Among those questions are, what justifies the state? Is democracy the only legitimate form of government? How much freedom should be secured for individuals? How should we understand the ideal of equality?"	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 202	Environmental Ethics	"An introduction to the field of environmental ethics. Some of the major figures and philosophies in the environmental movement are studied and critically analyzed with a particular emphasis on the ethical reasoning and its influences on environmental policies and practices. Topics include the historical development of the environmental movement, central debates between preservationist and conservationist ethics, intrinsic and instrumental evaluations of the natural environment and its inhabitants, animal rights and the ethical treatment of animals, shallow and deep ecological distinctions, and anthropocentric versus biocentric and ecocentric evaluations of nature."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 214	Medical Ethics	"Addresses urgent moral questions that arise in the field of medicine. Some of these are long standing. Is health strictly a biological concept, or do cultural and social norms in part determine what is good health? Should doctors act solely for the goal of improving their patients' health, or is their central obligation to respect patient autonomy? Other questions are more recent. When exactly is a person dead, such that withdrawing life-saving equipment is appropriate? Should parents and doctors take steps to see that their children are born with more desirable traits and characteristics? Students learn how philosophic argument can help illuminate these and related issues."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 216	Existentialism	"Designed to introduce students to existentialist thought via an examination of its 19th-century origins and 20th-century manifestations. Among the authors to be discussed are Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger, Sartre, Beauvoir, Camus, and Flannery O'Connor. Among the topics to be considered are existence, freedom, subjectivity, and absurdity."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 225	Logic I	"Logic is the science of correct reasoning. It provides rigorous methods for evaluating the validity of arguments. This introductory course covers the basic concepts and techniques of propositional logic and first-order predicate logic with identity, including truth tables, proofs, and elementary model theory."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	This course is suitable for students in all areas and is highly recommended for philosophy majors.
PHIL 226	Philosophy of Religion	"Can the existence of God be proven? Can it be disproven? What is the relationship between faith and reason? Does evil provide strong evidence against the existence of God? How should we think about the relationship between creation and evolution -- and about the relationship between science and religion generally? Does the Christian notion of the Trinity make any sense? What about the idea of Original Sin or the Atonement? Students seek reasoned answers to many of these questions by evaluating the work of philosophers who address them. Students encounter both classical and contemporary authors, though the class focuses more on perspicacious presentations of these issues rather than on their historical development."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 228	Philosophy of Science	"An introduction to the philosophy of science that explores issues of general philosophical interest to the sciences, rather than those germane to any particular discipline. Focus is on the issues of scientific laws, induction, theory confirmation and choice, falsificationism, reductionism, realism, explanation, prediction, and problems relevant to the special sciences."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 260	Asian Philosophy	"The continent of Asia has rich philosophical traditions that reach back as far as the 2nd millennium B.C. and that span the continent from Afghanistan to Japan (east to west) and from Mongolia to Jakarta (north to south). Students will study a selection of readings from a range of traditions and historical periods, including classical Indian philosophy, classical Chinese philosophy, contemporary writings on politics or aesthetics from Asia, Buddhist philosophy, Shinto philosophy, or Islamic philosophy. Students will engage these texts as they bear on conventional philosophical problem areas (such as metaphysics, ethics, political philosophy, and epistemology) and also reflect on the basis and methods of cross-cultural philosophical study."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 301	Ancient Philosophy (MF)	"Surveys some of the central figures and ideas of classical Greek and Roman philosophy, with particular emphasis on Plato, Aristotle and the main Hellenistic schools. Topics to be considered include the aim and method of Socratic inquiry; Plato's epistemology, theory of forms and defense of justice; Aristotle's logic, ontology and ethical theory; Stoic and Epicurean cosmology and ethics."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 302	Modern Philosophy (MF)	"The rise of modern science together with the Reformation’s challenge to the authority of the Catholic Church created an era of intense intellectual and cultural ferment in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. The philosophy of this period is called ‘modern’ because it made a distinct break with older traditions and because the questions it asked remain the central issues for philosophers today. Studying modern philosophy will help students think creatively about what there is, what we are, and what we can know. Readings will be selected from classic works by Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz, Hume, Locke, Berkeley, and Kant."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 303	Medieval Philosophy (MF)	"Medieval philosophy involved the absorption and transformation of Greek and Hellenistic thought by Jewish, Christian, and Muslim thinkers, often in relations of mutual influence. The period is crucial not only for its project of reconciling reason and faith but also for philosophical insights, arguments, and formulations that have remained influential in several of the main areas of philosophy. The course focuses on questions concerning freedom of the will, the nature of moral requirements and obligation, the role of rational considerations in morality, the virtues, and ideals of human excellence. Students read figures from the three faith traditions and explore their interactions and mutual influences, as well as their differences. Coverage of Jewish, Christian, and Muslim thinkers is roughly equal, and students look at the Platonic, Neoplatonic, and Aristotelian background to their thought as well as the new directions in which they took philosophy."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 304	Kant & 19th Century Philosophy	"Studies Kant and some major developments in 19th-century continental philosophy that stem from the transformations and criticisms of Kant's philosophy. Readings are from Kant, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel, Kierkegaard, and Nietzsche, among others. Issues explored include the possibility of knowing things in themselves, the relationship between faith and knowledge, the conditions of experience, and the basis of morality."	PHIL	3	One course in philosophy		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 306	Recent Continental Philosophy	"A study of some of the major movements in recent continental philosophy. Among the movements to be considered are phenomenology, existentialism, philosophical hermeneutics, poststructuralism, and postmodernism. Among the thinkers to be considered are Husserl, Heidegger, Gadamer, Sartre, Foucault, and Derrida. Movements and thinkers may vary from year to year."	PHIL	3	One course in philosophy		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 312	Contemporary Political Philosophy (VT)	"Offers a critical engagement with the rich work in political philosophy that has appeared since the landmark publication of John Rawls' A Theory of Justice. After a close examination of Rawls' egalitarian liberalism, students take up the range of alternative positions that dominate contemporary political theory: conservatism, libertarianism, communitarianism, feminism, Marxism, and multi-culturalism."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	At least one course in ethics or political theory is recommended.
PHIL 313	International Ethics	"Nations increasingly come into contact with one another in a common international arena, and these encounters raise a host of important moral questions: Are there moral standards that apply across all human communities, and if so, how specific are they? Do all human beings have rights, and if they do, what are they? What duties do wealthy countries have to aid poor ones? Are there moral constraints on how war must be conducted, and if so, what are they? In this course students engage with the work of contemporary theorists exploring these and related questions."	PHIL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	At least one course in ethics or political theory is recommended.
PHIL 320	20th-Cent Analytic Philosophy	"Employs the tools of analytic philosophy to address the large topic of the mind, the world, and the relation between them; students also explore the closely related topics of how our concepts get their content and how our language gets its meaning. By analyzing both our concepts and our experience, students will try to answer questions like: What is the relation between experience and the world beyond the mind? Do beliefs about the world amount to knowledge? Is the content of experience conceptual – and so fully expressible in language – or does experience have a richness that always surpasses the expressive power of language? Where do concepts come from? What fixes their content, and what fixes the meaning of the words that express them? If the content of language is based in part on experience, can one understand the language of someone whose experience is different? Course readings will include works by Russell, Carnap, Quine, Sellars, Davidson, and McDowell."	PHIL	3	One course in philosophy		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 321	Philosophy of Literature	"In his Republic, Plato famously banishes the poets from the ideal society, and thereby establishes the traditional separation of literature from philosophy, fiction from truth, and logical argument from persuasion. By examining the literary style of selected philosophical texts, as well as the philosophical significance of various literary works of art, students focus on how different modes of writing are able to address traditional questions of philosophy and to illuminate significant features of human existence. Could philosophy itself perhaps be understood as a literary enterprise? And what is the philosophical significance of literary works, written in poetic or narrative form, that explore the same aspects of human experience that are also studied by philosophers who use more prosaic modes of writing? Students explore these questions in relation to such literary and philosophical authors as J.M. Coetzee, Italo Calvino, Stanley Cavell, Søren Kierkegaard, Iris Murdoch, Martha Nussbaum, Friedrich Schiller, Shakespeare and others."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 322	Philosophy of Physics	"Modem physics overturned many assumptions about the fundamental nature of reality that had been widely accepted since Greek antiquity. Students trace the transition from Aristotelian mechanics to modern theories of motion, and then survey the main philosophical problems raised by three of our most successful physical theories: Newtonian mechanics, thermodynamics, and quantum theory. Topics discussed include the problem of action at a distance, thermodynamics and the arrow of time, theories of probability, non-locality, and the measurement problem in quantum mechanics."	PHIL	3	One philosophy course or one physics course		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 325	Logic II	"Covers a selection of advanced topics in logic: computability, Turing machines, soundness and completeness theorems, undecidability of predicate logic, Skolem-Löweheim theorems, nonstandard models, and Gödel's incompleteness theorems."	PHIL	3	PHIL 225		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 326	Philosophical Theology	"Philosophical theology is the systematic articulation of divine revelation. Its origin as a discipline trace to antiquity, as early Christians sought to compose a coherent alternative to ""pagan"" philosophies (Platonic, Stoic, etc.), using the tools of those very philosophies (e.g., conceptual analysis and the determination of logical consistency as a means to metaphysical system-building). Philosophical theology flourished in the Middle Ages, as Jews, Christians, and Muslims grappled with the rediscovered Aristotelian corpus; it is in the midst of a renaissance begun in the second half of the 20th century. After examining the epistemological framework in which philosophical theology takes place, the course discusses particular issues, which may include: revelation and scripture, the concept of prayer, the oneness of God, mitzvoth (commandments), halakhah (law), the Trinity, the Incarnation, sin and original sin, the Atonement, and the eternal destiny of the soul."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 329	Philosophy of Law (VT)	"Examines some central ideas of jurisprudence and the philosophy of law. Readings concentrate on general theories of law, justice, legal rights, liability, and legal responsibility, and on the nature of judicial reasoning and legal principles. Some broader methodological questions pertaining to causation and the law and the relation of law and morality are discussed and related to the readings."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 330	Aesthetics and the Philosophy of Art (VT)	"Discussion of the classical writings of philosophers on art and central ideas of aesthetics: form and content, expression, taste, and standards of criticism are included in this course. Readings include Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Nietzsche, etc., as well as contemporary essays."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 335	Contemporary Epistemology (M&E)	"Examines central questions about knowledge and justification, including whether and how knowledge is possible, whether we must always be able to access the foundations of our justified beliefs, and how a knower can be virtuous or vicious. In answering these questions, students explore various sources of knowledge and justification, including perception, testimony, memory, and introspection. Students may also explore challenges to the dominant epistemological paradigms of the last century from naturalistic, experimental, feminist, and Bayesian perspectives."	PHIL	3	One course in philosophy		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 340	Metaphysics (M&E)	"A systematic study of central issues involved in theorizing about reality at the most general level. Is the world a world of substances or a world of events? What is the nature of causation? Do concepts and statements refer to the world as it is in itself, or is such a notion idle or incoherent? How are such things as possibility and necessity and laws of nature to be understood? The topics are handled in a way that stresses the historical persistence of the debates over these issues but focuses on recent and contemporary discussions of the topics."	PHIL	3	One courses in philosophy		Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 341	Philosophy of Mind (M&E)	Examines the historical and contemporary debates about the nature of the mind. These questions are considered: What is the relation of the mind to the physical world? How do mental states manage to be about things? Are all minds conscious? How serious is the difference between first-person and third-person perspectives on mental activity? What beyond consciousness is required for self-hood? What grounds our concept of mental health? What kind of mind makes individuals responsible for their behavior?	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 342	Philosophy of Language (M&E)	"Examines major topics and insights in the philosophy of language from its modern inception in the late 19th century to the present. Core questions include: How does linguistic meaning relate to how people use language to communicate? What is meaning's relationship to concepts like reference, truth, verification and use? Is there a systematic theory that can generate the meaning of every sentence in a language? In answering the above questions, students master the logical and conceptual tools necessary for analyzing particular parts of language, which may include names, definite descriptions, demonstratives, metaphors, slurs, and other interesting linguistic expressions. Among the thinkers discussed are Frege, Russell, Wittgenstein, Austin, Grice, Quine, Searle, Davidson, and Kripke."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	A prior course in logic is recommended.
PHIL 343	Topics in Moral Theory (VT)	"Addresses central questions in metaethics by examining the dialectic between moral realism and antirealism. Students consider questions like: Are there moral facts? Or do moral pronouncements express a noncognitive attitude? Can we reconcile the idea that morality is objective with the fact that there are scientific or sociological explanations of our moral beliefs? If there are moral facts, where do they come from?"	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 344	Our Sensational Mind: The Physiology and Philosophy of Perception	"Some form of conscious sensory perception-seeing, hearing, or smelling the world around us-marks all of our waking moments. Sensory perceptions enable us to investigate, navigate, and take action in the world. This course investigates perceptions themselves, and asks empirical and philosophical questions about them. How are they produced? Can they be shared? When and why are they unreliable?"	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 348	"Well-being, Meaning, and Death"	"Focuses on questions concerning what makes a life a good one, and if death is bad for a person, what makes it bad. These questions include: What is it for a life to go well for the person living it? Can death harm the one who dies? In what sense, if any, can a life be meaningful? Is immortality relevant to the possibility of well-being or meaningfulness?"	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 360	Feminist Philosophy	"Explores questions like: How have gendered assumptions influenced philosophical views about what knowledge is and how knowledge is best pursued? What roles, if any, should considerations of gender play in our theories of knowledge? How have gendered assumptions influenced political discourse? What conceptual advances might be won if we take the woman to be the paradigm of personhood rather than the man? Students may address issues in feminist philosophy of science, specifically issues concerning the scientific study of sexual differences in behavior and brain structure; or issues in feminist political philosophy, including the role of justice in the family and the effects of power inequality on autonomous decision-making."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 365E	"Freedom, Tyranny, and Philosophy in the Ancient Mediterranean (Extended Study)"	"A three-week extended study course aiming acquaint students with the geography, topography, and material culture of ancient Greece, southern Italy, and Rome; with the concepts and vocabularies of ancient political thought (in particular binaries such as freedom and tyranny, democracy and empire, republic and monarchy, citizenship and authority); and with the deep continuity between Greco-Roman political theory and ancient (as well as much contemporary) philosophical thought about ethics and human psychology."	PHIL	2	PHIL 301 or CLAS 236 or GREK 121 or LATN 122			
PHIL 380	Issues in Epistemology and Metaphysics: Philosophy of Biology	"This is an umbrella course designed to allow students to delve into specific topics in epistemology or metaphysics. The study will situate each problem in its appropriate historical context thus allowing student access to the approaches to a given issue offered in Ancient, Medieval, Modern, and recent works. The course will bring students inside some problems and methods that lie at the heart of philosophy by inquiring into issues such as the structure of knowledge, our basis for making claims about other minds, possible worlds, skepticism, and the justification of belief."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 381	Issues Epist/Metaph:Skepticism	"[Issues in Epist & Metaphysics: Skepticisms Ancient and Modern] This course will trace the history of philosophical skepticism. We will begin by examining skepticism’s ancient origin as a way of life in opposition to doctrinal philosophical schools such as those of the Epicurians and the Stoics. We will then consider the renaissance of skepticism in the theological disputes between Protestant reformers and defenders of Catholic orthodoxy. We will draw connections between these disputes and the specifically modern forms of skepticism to be found in Descartes and Hume. Finally, we will examine some contemporary responses to skepticism, and we will return to the ancient question of whether skepticism has any practical value."	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 411	Wittgenstein & Phil of Lang	"This seminar is a detailed study of the thought of Ludwig Wittgenstein, one of the most important philosophers of the 20th century. This course first examines his early work in relation to problems about the nature of logic and language raised by Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell, and then it uses Wittgenstein's later work to explore the nature of meaning and the concept of mind. Throughout, this course attempts to articulate the character and purpose of philosophical inquiry."	PHIL	3	Three courses in philosophy		Human Thought and Expression	A prior course in logic is recommended.
PHIL 417	Advanced Topics in Philosophy: Epistemology and Metaphysics	"Knowing-that—or propositional knowledge—seems different from knowing-how. I can know that crochet and knitting are two different techniques for turning string into fabric without knowing how to knit a sweater. I can know how to sauté vegetables for soup without knowing that the word for the technique I use comes from the French for ‘to jump’. Philosophers know how to disagree productively, and so unsurprisingly there are competing accounts of the know-how/know-that distinction. Students critically examine some of these accounts, including one that insists knowledge-how can be reduced to knowledge-that. Students use what is learned to investigate questions about self-control: How could we do more of what our best selves want to do? How could we do those things more effectively? And how could we better resist temptations not to do those things?"	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHIL 490	Honors	Students pursuing honors in philosophy enroll in this course.	PHIL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
PHYS 105	Mechanical Physics	"Covers fundamental principles of Newtonian mechanics and their applications into science, engineering, and in particular, architecture. Selected topics including waves, fluids, optics, electricity and magnetism, and thermal physics are aimed toward applications in the geosciences. Not suitable for students majoring in programs or concentrations requiring two or more semesters of physics."	PHAS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 111	Fundamental Physics I	"This introductory course emphasizes concepts and principles of mechanics, heat, waves, and sound. The focus is on building concepts, grasping principles, and learning how consequences of principles and concepts can be quantitatively calculated and measured. Students may not take this course after having completed PHYS 431."	PHAS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 111L	Fundamental Physics I Lab	Required corequisite to PHYS 111.	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 112	Fundamental Physics II	"Develops concepts and principles of electricity, magnetism, light, and modern physics."	PHAS	3	PHYS 111 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 112L	Fundamental Physics II Lab	"Diverse exercises and tasks, starting with fundamental laws of electromagnetism, extending to optics, and finishing with the laboratories that underpin modern physics. Required corequisite to PHYS 112."	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 131	Atoms and Waves	"An introduction to the process through which physics knowledge developed in the modern era. How did scientists determine whether the things they studied consisted of waves or particles; that is, what are the defining characteristics of each, and how can they be measured? To answer these questions, we introduce ideas from mechanics, electricity, and special relativity. Students are then confronted with one of physics’s great mysteries: how can the same object act as either a particle or a wave? While we may not completely resolve this mystery, we learn a little quantum mechanics that helps us predict the behavior of these systems. Some physics background is helpful, but none is assumed. Students must be very comfortable with algebra and trigonometry, but they will not need calculus until the next physics course. Two lectures, two problem-solving recitations, and one laboratory meeting per week."	PHAS	3	Students who plan to continue into PHYS 232 should co-register for MATH 161		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	"This course is required for students planning to major in physics, physics-astronomy, or physical science, and for students interested in pre-engineering."
PHYS 131L	Atoms and Waves Lab	"Experiments inquire about the existence of atoms, photons and their properties. Required corequisite to PHYS 131."	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 131RE	Atoms and Waves Recitation	Required corequisite to PHYS 131.	PHAS	0				
PHYS 201	Mathematical Methods for Physics	"This half-semester course is an introduction to computational physics, providing the mathematical foundation required for sophomore- through senior-level physics courses."	PHAS	1				
PHYS 201L	Mathematical Methods for Physics Lab	Required corequisite to PHYS 201.	PHAS	0				
PHYS 205	Mathematical Methods of Physics	"A one-semester introduction to the mathematical methods of physics, with an emphasis on applications and how these methods are used to approach various problems. The course will cover topics such as ordinary differential equations, complex numbers and Euler's equation, linear systems, Fourier series, Fourier transforms, computational techniques, series expansions, cylindrical and spherical coordinate systems, vector differentiation, divergence and curl, integration methods and multi-dimensional integrals. These topics will be brought to bear on physical problems such as the damped and driven oscillator, coupled oscillators, electric dipoles, beat frequencies, electromagnetic waves and electrostatic boundary-value problems."	PHAS	3	MATH 163 and PHYS 201 and PHYS 232 all with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 232	Introduction to Mechanics	"A study of classical mechanics using astronomical themes. The principles of kinematics, dynamics, conservation laws, and gravitation are developed and used to understand the properties of astronomical objects such as planetary systems, binary stars, and galaxies. Treatment is more thorough than in PHYS 111. Differential and integral calculus and vector manipulation are used throughout. Two lectures, two recitation meetings, and one laboratory session per week."	PHAS	3	PHYS 131 and (MATH 161 or MATH 162 or MATH 163) both with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	"Required for students planning to major in physics, astronomy-physics, or physical science, and for students interested in pre-engineering. It is also recommended for chemistry majors. Students who plan to take physics courses beyond PHYS 232 should co-register in MATH 163 (formerly MATH 113) and PHYS 201."
PHYS 232L	Introduction to Mechanics Lab	"An investigation of mechanical physical laws, including discovery-based labs. Required corequisite to PHYS 232."	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 232RE	Intro Mechanics Recitation		PHAS	0				
PHYS 233	Introduction to Electricity and Magnetism	"The classical theory of electricity and magnetism is assembled from observations of nature and physical inference, using differential and integral calculus. Emphasis is on the fundamental roles played by the electric and magnetic fields, their geometrical properties, and their dynamics. The course covers the integral form of Maxwell's equations. Principles of elementary circuits and optics are also included."	PHAS	3	PHYS 232 and (MATH 113 or MATH 163) both with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	This course is required for students planning to major in the physical sciences and pre-engineering. Students planning to take physics courses beyond PHYS 233 should co-register in PHYS 205.
PHYS 233L	Introduction to Electricity and Magnetism Lab	Required corequisite to PHYS 233.	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 301	Fluid Mechanics	"Examines fluid properties and movement. Using principles of conservation of momentum, dimensionless numbers, and energy conservation, students learn and analyze fluid motion, force, turbulence, and flow in conduits and pipes."	PHAS	3	PHYS 232		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 304	Physical Optics	"A study of physical optics and properties of light, such as dispersion, polarization, interference and diffraction. Advanced topics include optical instrumentation, Fourier optics, laser physics, and holography. The course prepares students for knowledgeable use of optical instruments in fields such as photonics, engineering and astronomy. It teaches modern laser techniques for use in basic and applied research. Four lecture meetings and one laboratory meeting each week."	PHAS	3	PHYS 205 and PHYS 233 all with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 304L	Physical Optics Lab	An experience in optical methods of manipulating laser beams and their use in imaging and physical measurements. Required corequisite to PHYS 304.	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 310	Adv Topics & Experiments	"This is an optional junior-year research experience open to qualified students. Under the guidance of a faculty mentor, each student works on an experimental or theoretical project that ideally produces original results. A final thesis and a formal oral presentation are essential components of the course."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher and permission of department chair		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 334	Introduction to Quantum Mechanics and Special Relativity	"Provides the mathematical and conceptual foundation to understand two important developments in modern physics: special relativity and quantum theory, concentrating on wave mechanics."	PHAS	3	PHYS 233 and PHYS 205 both with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 336	Electronics	"A comprehensive treatment of basic electronics, both digital and analog. The digital section includes combinational and sequential logic, integrated circuits, and interfacing. The analog section includes DC and AC circuits, filters, diodes, transistors, and operational amplifiers."	PHAS	3	PHYS 233 both with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 336L	Electronics Lab	A hands-on experience in designing and wiring electronic circuits and their interfacing to electronic boards such as Arduino and Teensy. Includes mid-semester and final free-design group projects. Required corequisite to PHYS 336.	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 350	Biophysics	"An introduction to biological physics including a survey of topics such as diffusion, Brownian motion, non-Newtonian fluids, self-assembly, cooperativity, bioenergetics, and nerve impulses, as well as experimental techniques and analytical approaches. Students first develop the interdisciplinary knowledge needed to address biophysical questions. The course then focuses on the reading, presentation, and critique of current biophysics research literature. Although challenging in its breadth, this course is intended to be accessible to juniors and seniors majoring in physics, chemistry, or biology."	PHAS	3	(MATH 111 or MATH 161) and (PHYS 111 or PHYS 112 or PHYS 131 or PHYS 232 or PHYS 233) with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 410	Advanced Topics and Experiments	"This is a required senior research experience. Under the guidance of a faculty mentor, each student works on an experimental or theoretical project that ideally produces original results. A final thesis and a formal oral presentation are essential components of the course."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher. Astrogeophysics majors are not required to have the pre-requisite.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 410L	Adv Topics & Experiments Lab	Required corequisite to PHYS 410.	PHAS	0				
PHYS 431	Classical Mechanics	"A detailed study, using vector calculus, of important problems in the mechanics of particles and extended bodies including a derivation of Lagrange's and Hamilton's equations, and other advanced topics."	PHAS	3	PHYS 205 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 432	Electromagnetism	"A study of Maxwell's equations and their applications to topics in electrostatics and electrodynamics, including electromagnetic waves."	PHAS	3	PHYS 205 and PHYS 233 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 433	Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics	"An introduction to the physical concepts underlying the formalism of thermal physics. Emphasis is on the role and meaning of entropy in physical systems and processes. Topics include black body radiation, liquid helium, superconductivity, negative temperature, and the efficient use of energy."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 434	Quantum Mechanics	"An introduction to the theory and formalism of quantum mechanics. This course addresses the philosophical and mathematical foundations of the theory. It develops the linear algebraic formulation using spins, photon and atoms; and cover topics that include time evolution, angular momentum, the harmonic oscillator, the Schrodinger equation, entanglement, and quantum information. A series of laboratories gives students vivid examples of quantum mechanical principles."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 434L	Quantum Mechanics Lab	"A laboratory experience on the fundamentals of quantum mechanics and state manipulation using a correlated-photon laboratory platform. Experiments include quantum eraser, delayed choice and quantum entanglement. Required corequisite to PHYS 434."	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 448	Nonlinear Dynamics & Chaos	An introduction to the techniques and concepts used to analyze real-time dynamic models that involve nonlinear terms. Applications are emphasized and demonstrate the universality of chaotic solution behavior. This course is team-taught by members of the physics and mathematics departments.	PHAS	3	MATH 308 or PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Students should enroll through the department for which they intend to use the credit
PHYS 451	Computational Mechanics	"Investigates general algorithms and their implementation for the exploration of problems in classical and quantum mechanics. Applications range widely from solar system dynamics and chaotic systems to particles in general quantum potentials. Fourier analysis, including the fast Fourier transform, and its application to the understanding of physical systems and data analysis, are also studied. Each student undertakes a major numerical project of his or her choice."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 451L	Computational Mechanics Lab	Required corequisite to PHYS 451.	PHAS	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 453	Solid State Physics	"Several important properties of matter in its solid form are examined. The ordered, crystalline nature of most solids is used as a starting point for understanding condensed material and as a basis for introducing the band theory of solids. The course investigates thermal, electrical, and magnetic properties of metals, semiconductors, and insulators."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 456	Relativity and Cosmology	"At the beginning of the 20th century, Einstein's discovery of the Special and General Theories of Relativity revolutionized understanding of space and time. This course studies both theories; the emphasis is on General Relativity, including cosmology and the study of black holes."	PHAS	3	PHYS 334 with a grade of C- or higher.		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PHYS 491	Ind: Honors Research	"Opportunity for individual study in areas not covered by formal course offerings, under the guidance of a member of the faculty."	PHAS	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
POSC 150	America as a Democracy (AM)	"While most Americans take it for granted that our political system is a democracy and that it serves as an ideal by which other systems might be measured, the United States is only one of many stable democratic polities in existence today. In our analysis of American democracy, this course places an emphasis on how the U.S. government fits within the multicultural and global world of the 21st century. To this end, students compare America's democracy with other forms of democratic government across the globe. Students also consider how the growing racial-ethnic, class, sexuality, and gender diversity of the American population may impact the future of American politics. In our analysis of American democracy, this course places an emphasis on how the U.S. government fits within the multicultural and global world of the 21st century. To this end, we will compare America's democracy with other forms of democratic government across the globe. We will also consider how the growing racial-ethnic, class, sexuality, and gender diversity of the American population may impact the future of American politics. (AM)"	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 151	Politics and Moral Vision (TH)	"This introduction to political theory addresses the ways in which personal morality and ideas of human flourishing determine one's perceptions and responses to political institutions that shape the life and culture of one's nation. Using a wide variety of texts, the moral underpinnings of different political systems are discussed in terms of fundamental normative concepts such as right, duty, virtue, liberty, and equality. Other essential terms, basic to building a foundational political vocabulary, such as liberalism, conservatism, individualism, communalism, and modernity are also explored. This introduction to normative political theory gives special emphasis to the genesis and development of liberal democracy and the tensions between its component parts, particularly as they relate to visions of a well-lived, moral life. This course is designed to enrich one's perceptions of the evening news and the political discourse of our times. (TH)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 152	Global Peace and War (IR)	"Designed to provide students with an understanding of how international politics - politics between governments - differs from politics within a state. Students consider how the international system has evolved and currently operates, and examines some of the enduring questions of international relations: Why is there war? How can war be avoided? Is international equality a prerequisite for order? Can order, justice, and cooperation be achieved in a non-institutionalized and non-hierarchical system? (IR)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 153	Introduction to Comparative Politics (CO)	"Nearly 200 independent states coexist in the world today. Although they are all unique, political scientists study them in systematic ways, comparing them to discover fundamental political patterns that can help produce broadly applicable generalizations across different cultures and geographies. Themes such as democratic or authoritarian regime type, models of economic development, state institutions, civil society, and issues of national and ethnic identity all form important realms of inquiry for researchers engaged in the practice of comparative politics. This course introduces students to the principle themes and basic theories of comparative politics using examples from Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America, including both authoritarian and unstable democratic countries. (CO)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 208	Comparative Democracies	"Offers a comparative examination of the social bases of democracy and of different forms of constitutional government and competitive politics in both advanced industrial and developing countries in regions including Europe, Asia, Latin America, and Africa. Students explore questions about the causes of democratic stability and instability across countries and the effectiveness of their democratic government in delivering goods to their citizens. Students examine key conditions that appeared conducive to producing democratic transitions across the three “waves” of democratization. Finally, students consider the process of democratic consolidations, considering topics such as civil society, civil-military relations, institutional design, and international influences. (CO)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 210	Congress (AM)	"Analyzes the legislative process with a special emphasis on the relationship between Congress and the presidency. Students examine the historical development and structural attributes of Congress that determine its role in the executive-legislative relationship. Since the decision-making process varies enormously by issue area, students focus on several distinct policy areas. Course materials include classics of congressional scholarship as well as results from some of the latest research in the field. (AM)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 211	The Presidency and Executive Leadership (AM)	"An examination of the complex and controversial role the presidency plays in the American political system. The course begins with the founders and with the creation of the presidency at the Constitutional Convention. This is followed by an examination of the powers vested in the office and the ways in which they check and are checked by Congress. Discussion then turns to what has come to be called the ""managerial presidency."" Descriptive and analytical treatment of the ways in which the country elects presidents is a major topic. At many points the American presidency is compared to executive power in other democracies. (AM)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 212	Politics of Race & Ethnicity	"Examines the political dynamics of race in American society, focusing primarily on the experience of blacks as a socio-political group and to a lesser degree on that of other racial and ethnic minorities. The overriding theme is how race has influenced American politics and, conversely, how certain political phenomena have shaped the development of race. The specific topics around which the course is organized include the following: the most enduring and predominant racial issue - racial inequality; competing explanations for the origins and continuance of racial inequality; leadership approaches and ideologies for redressing the race problem; mass political strategies for dealing with the problem; majority attitudes and opinions regarding racial issues (including racial inequality); and the comparative experience of non-black minorities. These topics, individually and collectively, represent the essence of racial politics. (AM)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 214	Comparative Politics: East and Southeast Asia (CO)	"This course introduces students to the politics of countries in East and Southeast Asia. It examines similarities and differences in the evolution of their political societies from the end of World War II to the present time. Students will learn about the historical development of the state, regimes, and political parties and the interactions across these institutions that informed political and economic development in these countries. The course will cover the experiences of the East Asian early developers (Japan, Korea, and Taiwan), Southeast Asian countries (Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore) and the emergence of China as an economic and political power. (CO)"	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 215	Comparative Politics: Middle East (CO)	"An introduction to Middle Eastern politics, including historical foundations of the modern Middle East, competing strategies of state building, the Arab-Israeli conflict, the Gulf War, the rise of political Islam, and American policy toward the region. (CO)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 216	Comparative Politics: Latin America (CO)	"Today Latin America is one of the most democratic regions of the developing world, although it faces problems of inequality, gridlock, and economic growth. Latin America's 20th-century experiences of coups, revolutions, and instability also present important lessons for comparative politics. This course introduces students to the countries of Latin America and the important patterns of similarity and difference that can help them understand political development and elucidate comparative trends. Regime type is one prism through which students examine the region's countries, including democracy, semi-democracy, and various authoritarian regimes, especially bureaucratic authoritarianism. Another important topic is the United States' relationship with the region's polities, on issues like the Cold War, drug wars, and economic policies. In addition to big countries like Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Colombia, and Venezuela, the course also focuses on countries of particular student interest. (CO)"	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 232	Fundamentals of International Relations (IR)	"An introduction to the basic approaches to international relations, such as realism, idealism, and the interdependence school. Students also consider fundamental problems of national security, the uses of power, the causes of war, the nature of international institutions, the relationships among security, deterrence, conflict escalation, and nuclear proliferation. (IR)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 260	Foundations of Political Thought (TH)	"This introduction to political thought explores the questions: What is a just society? What is the best way of life? The course examines major alternatives from Plato to Nietzsche, as well as recent critics and defenders of American liberal democracy. (TH)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 300	Geneva Colloquium	Intended for students accepted to the Geneva Study Group the following spring. It has three purposes: to prepare students for life in Geneva through readings on the history and culture of Switzerland and discussion of the practical aspects of living in the city; to introduce students to the international organizations that the group will visit in Brussels at the beginning of the spring program; and to prepare students for their internships at international organizations and NGOs in Geneva.	POSC	2				
POSC 303	A View from the Mayor's Desk: Current Dynamics of American Governance	"Provides an insider's perspective on the myriad and complex managerial, policy-making, and political challenges faced by Mayors in the contemporary US political system."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 305	From Coconuts to iPhones: the Politics of Economic Development in East and Southeast Asia	"Studies the role of political institutions in shaping economic development in countries across East and Southeast Asia such as Japan, Korea, the Philippines, China, and Thailand. Students engage with a variety of topics such as the varied challenges of industrialization that different countries across the region faced; the role of the state in fostering markets; the relationship between economic growth and regime types; the impact of global financial markets upon political stability; and the political effects of developmental outcomes such as demographic change and rapid urbanization. The course is intended to give students a deeper understanding of the factors that led to the region’s trajectory of rapid economic growth and the different ways in which these countries are integrated with other economies of the world."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 307	China's Foreign Relations	"Examines China’s complex relations with the world mainly since the 1990s. It begins with a brief consideration of traditional Chinese understandings of international relations, historical legacies, geopolitical predicaments, and China’s foreign policymaking process. Students examine the recent reorientation of Chinese foreign policy as a result of China’s post-Mao economic reforms. Students assess China’s grand strategy of “Peaceful Development,” Chinese integration into “international institutions,” and China’s partial participation in an emergent Asian regionalism. Geographically, students examine China’s relations with its Pacific neighbors, other developing countries (especially in Africa), and with advanced countries (Europe and the USA). Students also evaluate the prospects for military conflicts over Taiwan, the Senkaku/Diaoyu, and the South China Seas. The problem of nationalism in foreign policy is assessed through an analysis of the “interactive nationalisms” driving the triangular US-China-Japan relationship. Students investigate China’s foreign policies on major international issues in an age of globalization. Specifically, with regard to the global economy, climate change and international human rights are examined. Concludes by assessing the prospects for Chinese foreign policy in the 21st Century."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 314	American Political Development	"An introduction the political science subfield of American Political Development, which traces the historical development of political institutions and the evolution of state/society relations in this country. How “exceptional” is the trajectory of state-building in the United States compared with other long-term democracies? What is the role of culture in shaping American politics and explaining change over time? How has race figured historically in the articulation of state power? Course readings tackle these and other questions from the perspective of political scientists, sociologists, and historians working on a broad empirical terrain spanning several centuries."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 316	Public Opinion	"Public opinion provides students with information about the nature and origins of Americans’ political belief systems. Students will center their investigations around the following concepts and their importance for understanding variation in public opinion: (1) ideology, (2) partisanship, (3) race and racial attitudes, (4) political knowledge and information and (5) various approaches and challenges to studying public opinion. In addition to relying on analyses that use the public opinion survey as a tool for investigating the political attitudes and beliefs of the American population, students will also consider and try to wrestle with the limits of the public opinion survey."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 317	Identity Politics	"Examines the politics of identity in comparative perspectives. Introduces students to a variety of theoretical approaches concerning the origin, transformation, and mobilization of national, ethnic, and other forms of collective identity. Students consider empirical applications of these theories: students identify processes through which identity becomes politicized, explore why some identity conflicts manifest as violence, and analyze the various ways - ranging from electoral solutions to genocide - in which states manage difference. Case studies are drawn from Europe, the former Soviet Union, Africa, the Asian sub-continent, and the United States."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 320	"States, Markets, Global Change"	"Do states intervene in the economy too much as conservatives and libertarians claim, or should they intervene more as many liberals and progressives argue? Does business have too much power or have the critics of “big business” and multinationals been too alarmist? Is the role of the government diminishing as the world becomes more global? This course discusses contemporary controversies regarding the relationship between government and the economy. It evaluates and examines the extent and kinds of state intervention into markets and the private sector, the influence and impact of corporations and business leaders on government institutions and policy from the United States to Latin America."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 321	Political Parties and Electoral Process	"Political parties are some of the most influential entities in politics, and this course examines them as they pursue pork, policy, and power in the arenas of elections and elected institutions. After providing a strong background in party theory and the American party system, the remainder of the course highlights important commonalities by comparing party activity and party system development in other countries that straddle the developed and developing world."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 323	American Elections and Party Power	"Focuses closely on the US party system and the electoral area in which the parties struggle for power. In order to develop a strong conception of American parties, students combine scrutiny of the day-to-day media representations of political parties with important comparative perspectives to understand how American parties and elections fit into broader political science frameworks, as well as their long-term and global implications. Students compare the current US party system in three directions: back through history (especially the 20th century) to understand the roots of today’s parties; out to the rest of the world, comparing party systems in other highly democratic countries; and also down to the state level, where students examine to what degree New York State parties and elections reflect national trends. Important topics covered include the effects of redistricting and campaign finance. Students also investigate the importance of issue-framing with units on contrasting party strategies of presenting a “war on women” and President Obama’s “socialism.”"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 324	US Strat During&After Cold War	"The nature of strategy and grand strategy and whether the United States has or should have one are questions today as they have been in the past and will be in the future. What these terms mean and how the United States has developed, or not, and implemented, or not, grand strategies since 1945 will be explored. Students are encouraged to refresh their knowledge of international relations since 1945 as background."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 325	Insurgency & State Failure	"An investigation of the concept of state failure, the current landscape of fragile and failed states, and the insurgencies that are nearly always found in such states. Students will assess the common definitions of state failure, the strengths and the shortcomings of the concept itself, and most importantly, explore how scholars attempt to explain the causes of state failure. Do states fail in many different ways, or are there patterns that all states with low capacity share? Are the best explanations for failure found in history and geography (say, colonialism, borders, population density, etc.), in civil society, or in flawed political systems? Finally, students will turn to how and when state failure can be reversed, or at least, understand what comes “after” state failure. Much depends on the outcome of entrenched conflicts in the region. How do insurgencies end? What role does the international community and outside players play in peace building (or in prolonging state failure)? What is the cost of giving up and choosing partition instead? In any case, who actually rebuilds a state – the people? the elites? the United Nations?"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 326	State and Local Politics	"Focuses on governing processes and institutions at the state and local level. Special attention is given to inter-governmental relations, municipal finance, and proposals for reform of local government."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 327	"Iran, Islam and Last Great Rev"	"Starting in the 19th Century, Iran, along with its regional neighbors, sought to use European institutions and technology as models for modernization, while at the same time guarding against a loss of cultural agency and authenticity. Assessing the possibilities, successes, and failures of the experience of ""multiple modernities"" in Iran and other late-developing countries will constitute a significant part of the course. Students will look critically at the value of the destination itself, whether modernity is a benign and righteous force or a temptation to produce havoc. Students look critically at the notion that postrevolutionary Iran offers an alternative path to modernity, a falsifiable claim that cuts against a conventional wisdom that regards the 1979 Revolution as the restoration of an anti-modem tradition and religiosity."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 328	Religion and Politics	Religion and politics influence each other--pervasively and controversially--in almost every political system across the globe. This course examines this fundamentally important relationship in a variety of national settings through a comparative assessment of issues and controversies such as constitutional relations between religious institutions and the state; the appropriate role of religious beliefs in a democracy; the challenges posed to contemporary governments by the expansion of religious pluralism; the role that religious interests and religious leaders can play in elections and policy making; and the many ways that religion and religious mobilization are shaping the very nature of political life in the modern world.	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 329	The Politics of Nationalism and Memory in Eastern Europe (Extended Study)	"How is history used to advance state-building and nation-building projects? What role do forgetting and memory play in politics? How do international forces interact with domestic political movements? This extended study course uses Vilnius, the current capital of Lithuania, as a case for studying the politics of nationalism and memory, which so shaped its history and which continue to inform its politics and culture today."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 329X	Polt Nation&Mem/FLAC-Lithuania		POSC	0				
POSC 330	Post-Mao China and World Development	"Examines post-Mao China’s socioeconomic development and post-socialist transition in an age of economic globalization. It analyzes the evolution of Chinese economic market reforms and China’s uneven integration into the Liberal World Order since 1978. This two-pronged developmental trajectory, however, encounters major challenges such as socioeconomic problems, ecological degradations, political dysfunctions, ideational crises, and international impediments. With varying efficacy, the Chinese government has attempted to redress these daunting problems through administrative reforms, economic rebalancing, anti-corruption campaigns, and international institutions. These major challenges and their attempted ameliorations are analyzed in-depth. The course concludes by examining the practical and discursive ramifications of China’s development model for Chinese society, world politics, and the philosophical search for alternative modernities."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 331	Politics in Sub-Saharan Africa	"Provides an understanding of politics in 48 countries that constitute sub-Saharan Africa. Following the independence era of the early 1960s and 1970s, much of the sub-continent exploded into a seemingly endless cycle of violence underscored by military coups d’état and civil wars. Over the last decade, various conflicts subsided enough for some states to institute political and market reforms. Others remained stuck in the throes of economic stagnation, on the verge of disintegration and vulnerable to terrorist groups and drug runners who exploit their vast ungovernable territories. What explains the various transitions that some states have experienced in sub-Saharan Africa? Why did most states disintegrate in violence following the end of colonial rule? Drawing upon pre-colonial accounts and histories of state formation and the theoretical, methodological, and conceptual tools that various Africanists have used to analyze key events, this course offers answers to these and other important questions about political and socio-economic developments on the continent of Africa."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 335	U.S. Environmental Politics	"Public policies to protect the environment are among the most important and controversial issues in local, state, and national government. This course analyzes the politics of environmental protection in the United States through the use of social science theory and a variety of quantitative and qualitative methods. The course introduces frameworks for understanding environmental policy problems and reviews several important American environmental laws. Readings include social science ""classics"" on the environment, as well as recent scholarship on environmental politics and emerging environmental issues. Topics covered in the course include the politics of environmental science, environmentalism as a social movement, environmental lawmaking in Congress, bureaucracy and environmental regulation, federalism, environmental law, and environmental justice."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 336	Campaigns & Voting Behavior	"Examines political campaigns and voting behavior in American elections. The course will focus on both the broad theoretical literature surrounding campaigns and voter behavior as well as in-depth coverage of ongoing political campaigns in the United States. We will primarily examine presidential and congressional elections. Topics to be covered include: primary elections, election forecasting, campaign effects, negative vs. positive campaigning, theories of candidate preference and political participation."	POSC	3				
POSC 338	"Sex, Law, and the American Culture Wars"	"Explores the American church-state debate through the lens of abortion and same-sex marriage. These sexual freedom and reproductive rights issues raise questions that reach to the very heart of the American political project. What is the scope of our right to engage in private behavior? Do longstanding religious and moral traditions have a place within a secular legal system? Are there limits to the Constitution's guarantee of religious free exercise, and, if so, how do we determine these limits? These issues have generated intense social and political conflict, and are at the center of today's ""culture wars"" in the U.S. This course will provide students with a robust background in the legal history of these issues, and will furnish students with a framework for making sense of some of today's most contentious political battles in the U.S."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 341	War and the Shaping of American Politics	"Examines the impact of warfare, expansion, and national security policy on the development of domestic American institutions and politics since the Revolution. War's impact has been multifaceted and contradictory, fueling a politics of reaction and repression in many contexts while serving as a catalyst for advances in political, racial, and economic equality and inclusion in others. Students will explore those contradictions by connecting war mobilization and security politics to the trajectory of American political development and state/society relations over time. Topics include: the role of the putatively weak American state in shaping 19th century territorial expansion; the effect of wartime mobilization and participation on racial politics; the interplay of warfare and the welfare state in American history; the postwar politics of the ""military-industrial complex;"" and the impact of foreign policy and national security on the American party system. Readings will engage such topics from the perspective of political scientists, sociologists, and historians working on a broad empirical terrain ranging over several centuries."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 342	Polit of Nuclear Proliferation	"Why do states want to have nuclear weapons? How do specific motivations differ from Iran to North Korea to Israel, to India, to Pakistan? Some scholars and politicians argue that the world will be safer as more countries possess functional nuclear arsenals; are they right? This course examines the available data and the analyses of authors from a variety of countries in order to derive the best answers we can to the questions."	POSC	2	POSC 152 or POSC 232 or POSC 353 or POSC 366 or HIST 216		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 344	Politics of Poverty	"Examines the nature and extent of poverty in the United States, with particular emphasis on public policies designed to alleviate poverty and recent proposals for reform. Political factors affecting the formulation and implementation of poverty policies are examined, drawing on case studies of selected issues such as the war on poverty, Medicare, food stamps, aid to families with dependent children, and negative income tax proposals."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 345	News Media & Political Process	"Politics is a distant and dimly understood process for most people; still, they must somehow come to terms with the threats and reassurances it offers, and reach assessments of personalities and policies about which they often know little. This course is an analysis of politics and the media from the inside out, beginning with the ways people receive, interpret, or ignore the media messages directed at them. News reporting and questions of bias are treated in the context of a group analysis of important stories. The class also considers the evolution and refinement of media campaigning techniques. Those who cannot purchase time or space in the mass media may resort to protest, terror, and violence in order to air their views. The class discusses these cases along with the ethical issues they pose. (PG)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 346	Beneath Black Robes: Courts	"Focuses on the causal dynamics of judicial behavior. Introduces students to the study of courts as political institutions and, in doing so, provides some understanding of the political nature of the role of courts in American society. Departs from the view that landmark national decisions such as Roe v. Wade, Baker v. Carr, and Brown v. Bd. of Education, along with their more recent conservative corollaries, are solely the product of adherence to constitutional standards of interpretation. Instead, it posits that these controversial rulings and judicial policy in general can be explained through careful examination of certain political factors. In short, the course is based on the premise that the judiciary is a permeable structure that is responsive to democratic processes and that, in turn, exerts influence upon those processes. Two major theoretical concerns integrate the lectures and materials covered: 1) the dynamic relationship between court decision-making processes and major features of the larger American political arena, and 2) the inherent tensions between judicial independence and democratic politics."	POSC	3	100-level POSC course		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 347	Civil-Military Relations	"A seminar on the major themes and debates in the study of civil-military relations (CMR). In modern states questions about the proper balance between the armed forces and the civilian political leadership is a key feature of politics. At the most extreme, the military itself takes power. In established democracies civil-military relations do not take this extreme form, but important debates remain about the proper degree of military influence over defense and foreign policy, and the degree to which military policy should be responsive to broader social and cultural values. Most issues discussed are traditionally placed in comparative politics or international relations, but also touch on themes from American politics, public administration, and political theory."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 348	Rise and Fall of Communism	"Examines the spread of political and economic ideas and practices in the shocking advent and demise of state socialism and subsequent transitions to market capitalism. Students study the ideological struggles with Nazism, Fascism, and Capitalism, focusing mainly on the countries of East Central Europe and the former Soviet Union, but addressing an entire system of states where such transformative processes occurred in the 20th century. Students explore the politics, implementation, and impact of radical economic and social ideas. Students devote particular attention to the relationship between personal and cultural influences of ideologies, local polities and economies, and processes of global ideological development."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 349	The International Political Economy	"Looks at the historical and theoretical development of the international political economy. Some of the major topics include the interaction between politics and economics in trade and protectionism, capital flows, exchange rates, debt, globalization, and problems in development. (IR)"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 353	National Security	"Discusses and analyzes the idea of national security in theory and practice, as well as the impact of nuclear weapons on contemporary statecraft topics including deterrence theory, arms control and disarmament, nuclear proliferation, and recent strategic developments. An optional three-week extended study in New York City, POSC 383, deepens students' understanding of several issues that are treated in class during the term."	POSC	3	POSC 152 or POSC 232 or FSEM 196		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 354	"Capitalism, the State, and Development in Latin America"	"The developmental trajectories of Latin American countries contain a double conundrum: first, in spite of being a region endowed with a considerable amount of natural resources and having enjoyed privileged access to Western European and North American markets, the overall economic performance of the region during the 20th century lagged considerably behind that of the rest of the Western world. Second, even when these countries all share a past of colonial rule and a “peripheral” location in the international system, the economic differences within the countries of the region are staggering. Seeking to shed light on this puzzle, this course surveys existing theories on the relationship between political institutions and economic outcomes and explores the historical co-evolution of states, regimes, and markets in the region."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 357	International Institutions	"Examines how international institutions shape states' behavior and why some institutions are more effective than others. Students focus on institutions such as the United Nations, World Trade Organization, and NATO, and on issues such as development, human rights, climate change, and arms control."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 358	Transnational Politics	"Examines the segment of world politics that includes interactions and transactions between actors who are not representatives of governments or intergovernmental institutions. Non-state actors as diverse as global social movements, multinational corporations, religious communities, and even terrorist networks are now recognized as playing crucial roles on the world's political stage. This course focuses on a variety of these transnational actors to stretch the limits of state-based approaches, and emphasize the rich variety of relationships and interactions that characterizes contemporary world politics."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 359	Power in Russia from Gorbachev to Putin	"Examines the domestic and international politics of the world’s largest country. Students track the weakness and disorder of the chaotic 1990s under Boris Yeltsin, and the birth of a new system on the ashes of Communism. Students examine the rise of Russian power and prestige under Vladimir Putin and his centralizing innovations to strengthen political and economic institutions. The course also considers dissent and protest movements, the national conflicts with internal minorities, as in Chechnya, and projection of power over the post-Soviet ""Near Abroad"" and the construction of a corporatist-style system that presents new challenges to the global dominance of ideas about democracy and capitalism."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 360	Domest Source Amer Foreign Pol	"To the extent that the U.S. sets its own course in international affairs, domestic sources of American foreign policy become a crucial consideration. This course examines the role of domestic politics in formulating US foreign policy. Special emphasis is placed on the function of representative institutions, bureaucracies, and public opinion in determining and implementing American foreign policy. Students are presented with a comprehensive framework of analysis that permits them to describe and perhaps predict actions taken by the US government."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 361	Humanitarian Interventions	"Peace operations have been widely deployed to contain and promote resolution of conflicts. This course focuses primarily on humanitarian intervention and probes the different contexts in which peacekeepers have been introduced: interstate conflicts, civil conflicts, and humanitarian emergencies. Students consider how humanitarian interventions differ in practical terms from other types of peace operations, considering questions of strategy, mandates, and political will. Students also analyze the ethical implications of humanitarian intervention, particularly questions of responsibility, legitimacy, sovereignty, and unintended consequences. Theoretical readings are combined with comparative case studies are drawn from Africa, the Middle East, the Balkans, and elsewhere."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 366	Contemporary American Foreign Policy	"Focuses on the theoretical traditions underlying American foreign policy, key concepts in the conduct of foreign policy, and the application of these theories and concepts to historical and contemporary events. Students examine how policymakers determine the national interest, the tools used to conduct foreign policy, and how policymakers have responded to foreign policy problems in the 21st century. Students focus on both theory and application to understand how decisions are made and executed, as well as which policy problems are most critical today."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 367	The European Union	"Examines the development and consequences of European unification after World War II. Major topics include the nature and history of integration, concepts of sovereignty and the nation-state, the role of international organizations in world politics, the institutional structure of the EU, major initiatives such as the Common Agricultural Policy and the Common Market, the meaning and repercussions of the Maastrict Treaty, and the development of a single currency. Includes the opportunity to participate in a model European Union with American and European students."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 368	American Foreign Relations with China	"Examines the major sources, dominant theories, and primary policy options in American foreign relations with China. Begins by examining some key determinants of this bilateral relationship and proceeds to investigate “realist,” “liberal,” and “cultural” approaches to understanding international relations in general and US China policy in particular. Particular attention is paid to the so-called “Thucydides Trap” and the actual consequences of a potential US-China war. Concludes by examining the effects of “American Exceptionalism” and the “China threat” on US foreign policy towards China."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 371	West European Politics	"Looks at the political institutions and dynamics across Western European countries in the contemporary period. Recurring themes include democratic institutions, consolidation and decay; political economy and the welfare state; and European integration. Topical areas considered include immigration, climate change, and foreign and defense policy. A core assignment for the course this semester will involve participation in Eurosim, a Model European Union simulation involving students from multiple other American and European universities. The simulation will occur over a couple of days in late March, and will address the topic of refugees and migration."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 373	The Public Policy Process	"Examines how the executive and legislative branches of government interact to formulate public policies. The influence of political parties, interest groups, business organizations, and public opinion on these institutions is explored in depth. Also highlights the impact of federalism within the American political system, pointing both to intergovernmental implementation of national policies and to policy innovation at the state level. An overarching theme is the inevitable tension between oligarchy and democracy in a system where only a few actors wield direct influence over policy decisions."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 374	International Law	"Introduces students to public international law through an examination of the key concepts and principles that underlie the foundations of international law, as well as through the legal norms that regulate relations between states. Although states are considered the central actors in international law, the involvement of nonstate actors, intergovernmental organizations, and other participants is also examined. Substantive areas of international law, humanitarian law, and international law and the environment are also analyzed. Concludes with a discussion of the future role of international law in world politics."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 377	Political Psychology	"How do the forces that shape personality and motivation affect the political behavior of individuals? What role do factors such as schooling, religion, social class, mass media, race, and gender have upon individual beliefs and attitudes? How does the use of stereotypes and political symbols shape the popular understanding of politics and affect the relationship between the rulers and the ruled? By employing an individualistic perspective, this course investigates the formation of public opinion and the structure of political beliefs, values, and attitudes."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 379	The Development of the Modern State	"Though the state is now the standard form of political organization, this was not always the case. For centuries, political organization was dominated by city-states, feudal relations, and tribal or clan organizations. This course examines the emergence of the modern state as the predominant form of political organization. It explores various arguments for state sovereignty and examines several challenges to it as well. Finally, it considers the state of the state in today's globalized world."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 380	"Reason, Faith, and Politics"	"Examines the claims of reason and revelation as sources of ultimate truth and as guides for the political world. Readings are from the great theologians of the Jewish, Christian, and Islamic traditions."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 381	Revolutions	"Why do revolutions occur, or perhaps more to the point, why do they fail to occur? When do they end and what do they actually achieve? What, in other words, is so revolutionary about revolutions? Students consider whether and how revolutions differ from social movements, coups d'etats, and armed rebellions by looking at a broad range of uprisings, from the ""colored revolutions"" and liberating ""springs"" of recent years to the classical examples of the French, American, Mexican, Chinese, Cuban, and Iranian revolutions, as well as the challenging cases of Haiti and South Africa."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 382	American Political Thought	This study of the principles of American government as articulated by leading statesmen and political thinkers gives particular attention to the founding period and the Constitution and to their relationship to later periods of reform.	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 383	National Security (Extended Study)	"The extended study in New York City explores four topics covered in POSC 353: conflict in the Middle East, conflict in the Balkans, NATO and European security, and the UN peacekeeping system. The class meets with academics and representatives of roughly a dozen countries who deal with these issues. The study includes panels of military scholars from the US Army War College and the United States Military Academy at West Point."	POSC	2	POSC 353			
POSC 385	Modernity and its Conservative Critics	"What is wrong with the modern world, especially with the political culture of liberal and progressive intellectual elites? Such questions are explored by studying the radical critique of modernity offered by philosophical, classical, and Christian conservatives."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 386	Enlightenment Political and Social Thought	"Important Enlightenment-era political treatises are explored in this course. The bourgeois sensibilities of Montesquieu, Hume, Smith, and Voltaire are compared — culminating in the tenets of classical liberalism — to the more radical and perfectionist aspirations of Rousseau, Diderot, and Condorcet. For both schools of thought, the focus is on those aspects and ideas that cast light on matters of continuing concern and that help explain the 19th–century emergence of liberalism, romanticism, and radicalism."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 387	Reason and Power in Social and Political Thought	"How can one understand human beings when they seem to have such a complicated variety of interests and motives? The intent of this course is to look at the controversies that divide social and political theorists in their effort to understand human beings and the human condition. In the process students discover that beneath conflicting theories are recurring themes concerning subjectivity and objectivity, the nature of human beings, theories of self and other, as well as a debate over rationality, irrationality, truth, and knowledge. By better understanding these controversies students gain new insights into human nature, human knowledge, and the human condition."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 388	Constitutional Law: Civil Rights and Liberties	"Students examine the nature of civil rights and liberties under the Constitution; such include freedom of speech and the press, religious freedom, equal protection (with major attention to race and gender), due process, property, and privacy/autonomy (abortion, right to die, sexual orientation). Students also explore the role of the Supreme Court in the definition and protection of these rights and engage the several controversies surrounding the larger enterprise of constitutional interpretation, such as originalism v. nonoriginalism, natural law v. positivism, judicial activism v. judicial restraint, and so forth."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 389	Constitutional Law: Structures and Powers	"The focus of this course is what Aristotle identified as the central question of political science, the character of regime--the organization of offices and the distribution of power that is designed to achieve an understanding of justice and the human good. More specifically, students focus on the structural characteristics of the American regime, or Constitution--separation of powers, federalism, emergency powers, property rights; but students are equally concerned with the politics of interpretation itself--the complex process by which people determine what is the Constitution, how it is to be understood, and who has authority to interpret it. The responsibility for constitutional interpretation is broadly distributed, but it is also obvious that the preeminent voice for interpreting the Constitution has become the Supreme Court. Accordingly, students spend the greater portion of the course with the analysis of cases, that is, the Court's opinion of what the Constitution means."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 390	Silent Warfare: Intel Analysis	"Introduces students to the complex and crucial process of obtaining, analyzing, and producing intelligence in the making of American foreign policy. Subjects covered include problems with the structure of the intelligence community, covert action, psychological and bureaucratic constraints on analysts and policymakers, and how the intelligence community has responded to key threats. Students also explore ethical issues raised with intelligence gathering such as the use of enhanced interrogation techniques, the role of whistleblowers, and accountability of the intelligence community. By addressing these issues, students tackle critical problems associated with the collection, analysis, and use of intelligence to meet the American national interest."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 403	Sem:View from the Mayor's Desk	"Provides an insider's perspective on the myriad and complex managerial, policy-making, and political challenges faced by Mayors in the contemporary US political system."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 404	Seminar: Political Polarization and American Democracy	"The embittered state of contemporary American politics has occasioned widespread popular and scholarly consternation. In recent years, moreover, such worries have moved beyond a concern about popular rancor and dysfunctional governance to encompass serious contemplation of the prospect of “democratic backsliding” or even outright system collapse in the United States. This seminar is designed to familiarize students with major scholarly debates concerning political polarization in the United States—its historical origins and contemporary drivers, its workings at both the mass and elite level of political activity, and its impact on both political culture and governance. Students put that literature in dialogue with research in both American and comparative politics on democratic backsliding and constitutional stability. And, through a service-learning component that brings students into local voluntary civic and political organizations, they also consider the connection between community-level civic life and national political dynamics."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 416	"Seminar: Democracy, Capitalism, and the Changing World Order"	"Explores the development of democracy and capitalism over the past century in different regions of the world and assesses the prospects for the liberal democratic order amidst the rise of new political and economic forces such as populism, globalization, and technological advancements. Students study the comparative development of political and capitalist institutions and actors across countries, such as parties, the state, business, and labor, and analyze the different policy outcomes they pursued. Case studies are drawn from East and Southeast Asia, Latin America, Europe, and the U.S."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 417	Seminar: Law and Order	"In the American criminal justice policy process the people are represented by two separate, but equally important groups: the politicians who enact anti-crime laws and criminal justice officials who are empowered to enforce them. Students investigate ""Law & Order"" politics and policymaking in the U.S. by way of probing the extent to which the adoption of criminal justice policies by lawmakers and the administration of criminal law are driven and chiefly so by democratic pressures."	POSC	3	One 100-level POSC course		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 421	Seminar: Information Warfare	"Misinformation, disinformation, fake news — the political world around us is full of claims about the use and abuse of information. Students explore some of the key questions surrounding information warfare in international relations. Is information warfare a new sort of war — or the continuation of traditional conflict by other means? How do states and non-state actors use and manipulate information to achieve their goals on the international stage? How can states best protect themselves? And can it ever be ethical to engage in information warfare?"	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 433	Seminar: Topics in Globalization	"Addresses the causes and implications of globalization from a variety of disciplinary perspectives, including political science, economics, sociology, and philosophy. Aims to sharpen students' skills as critical readers and thinkers, and directs them in producing a capstone research project in their seminar paper."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 434	"Seminar: Immigrants, Refugees, and the Politics of Borders"	"This seminar examines themes in migration, citizenship, and belonging, in the context of South Asian migration world-wide, with special emphasis on the United States. The liberalization of American immigration law in the 1960s provides the basis for the discussion of push-pull factors of migration of South Asians from various states in the subcontinent (India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal). Today South Asians are deemed to be a model minority, a label that at the same time extols and dehumanizes South Asians depending on their class position and their country of origin. To counter the stereotypical narratives of doctors and engineers on the one hand and cab drivers and convenience-store clerks on the other, students are encouraged to engage with various texts to recognize ethnic, linguistic, and religious diversity of South Asian migrants, and to consider the challenges of acculturation and assimilation as immigrants become citizens."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 436	Sem:Continuity&Change Intl Pol	An analysis of contemporary conceptual approaches to international politics and of the trends and developments that are altering some traditional assumptions about the nature of the international arena.	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	Recommended for all international relations honors students and for students going to graduate school.
POSC 437	Seminar: Democratization and Prospects for Peace and Prosperity	"This seminar examines the politics of democratic transition and the political and economic performance of existing democracies, with a focus on the developing world. The class pays particular attention to the distinctive challenges of democratizing amidst globalization and resurgent nationalism, and analyzes the effects of democratization on international and internal conflict, economic development, equity, and political stability. Students evaluate the current debate over how the US can aid democratization. Countries studied include Russia, Mexico, Turkey, and South Korea."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 441	Seminar: Theories of State	"Due to the lingering legacy of colonialism, the economic effects of globalization, and the growth of transnational movements, the dominance of the state as the only form of political organization is in question today. The course will examine the revival of the theory of the state that has followed these developments and has yielded a rich and sophisticated literature. Topics may include: sovereignty, legitimation, and power."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 451	Sem: Africa in World Politics	"More than 50 years after formal independence, what is the contemporary condition of African countries? What has been the impact of economic and political reforms and the changing world order? What is the influence of foreign powers on African politics and development? This seminar discusses how Africa has featured in world politics since the advent of colonialism to the present. Topics include: slave trade, European exploration of Africa, and the establishment of the colonial trade. The majority of the course, however, focuses on the post-colonial period. Students examine the phenomenon of neo-colonialism, the involvement of Western and Asian powers in Africa, and the international aid regime. The course also focuses on some of the most important conflicts that took place on the continent, including in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Ivory Coast, and Mali."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 454	Seminar: The Cold War and After	"This seminar considers the interrelationships between two great land-based nations, the US and Russia, which expanded territorially, developed economically, and emerged to strategic dominance at much the same time. It examines the competition between those two states, looks at the prospects for their cooperation, and how the end of the Cold War has created new opportunities and problems for each of them."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 456	Seminar: War - Theories and Practices	"Theories of warfare and explanations of the outbreak of war are the focus of this course. Explanations of warfare as a general characteristic of the international system and case studies are examined, as is the evidence on the economic, political, and social consequences of war. The course deals both with general patterns and with particular 20th-century wars."	POSC	3	POSC 152 or FSEM 198 or POSC 232		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 462	Sem:Citizenship & Social Class	"Given the recent growth of inequality, the relationship between citizenship and social class, studied closely in the early years of the welfare state, is once more at center stage. In this seminar, students will read a range of books on inequality and political participation in Europe and the United States, focusing on how the ideas of legitimation, participation, and representation-used to varying extents in the European and American literatures-compare."	POSC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 466	Sem:Dispell Myths-Declar&Const	"[Dispelling American Founding Myths: The Declaration of Independence and the Framing of the Constitution. ] What did the Declaration of Independence and United States Constitution mean when written? Students focus on the essays, debates, and events in the American colonies and young nation that preceded and led to the drafting of these two foundational documents. Students explore still contested questions such as: was the Declaration’s language of equality intended to include all men and women in a land marked with all manner of inequalities? Were the Constitution’s Framers seeking to facilitate democratic governance or to limit it as much as possible? In writing the Constitution, how did they understand the essential institutions they created and/or effectively endorsed: the Electoral College, the Supreme Court, Senate representation, and slavery? In answering these questions, participants will be asked to read carefully primary American Founding-era documents, rather than research the views of secondary scholars and pundits."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 475	Seminar: Philosophies of Law: Theory and Practice	"Introduces students to philosophies of law as found in theories of natural law, international law, and positive law. Students examine the question of whether there are universal norms of morality and justice that transcend the diversity of cultures and the claims of multiculturalism. Students also examine the ‘higher law’ background of constitutions, legal systems, social movements, and international organizations. Readings will be selected from writings of classical Greek and Roman philosophers, medieval scholastics, modern creators of international law, the American founders, and contemporary philosophers of human rights and cultural relativism."	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 498	Honors Seminar	This course sequence is designed to provide the training and supervision for a select group of students to write honors theses in political science.	POSC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 499	Honors Seminar	This course sequence is designed to provide the training and supervision for a select group of students to write honors theses in political science.	POSC	3	POSC 498		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
POSC 591	National Security		POSC	3				
POSC 592	Sem: Africa in World Politics		POSC	3				
PSYC 150	Introduction to Psychological Science	"Introduces students to the scientific study of human behavior. Topics include biological foundations of behavior, learning, cognition, sensation and perception, development over the life span, emotion and motivation, personality, social thinking and behavior, and the causes and treatment of psychological disorders."	PBSC	3			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Psychological Science majors should complete this course by the end of the sophomore year.
PSYC 200	Research Methods in Psychological Science	"An introduction to research methods in psychological science. Provides experience in developing the following skills: critically reviewing scientific literature, formulating testable research hypotheses, designing experiments, measuring behavior, interpreting research results, and writing and presenting research reports."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150 or NEUR 170		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Psychological Science majors should take this course during the sophomore year
PSYC 250	Human Cognition	"Cognitive psychology is a scientific approach to understanding the functioning of the human mind and its relationship to behavior. This course explores recent empirical work in both the theoretical and practical aspects of a variety of issues related to cognition. Topics covered include pattern recognition, attention, mental representation, memory, problem solving, and development of expertise, reasoning, and intelligence."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150 or NEUR 170		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 251	Learning & Cognition	"One of the most fundamental influences on thoughts, behaviors, and attitudes is learning. This course addresses major topics in learning and cognition including learning through association, reinforcement and punishment, the role of evolution in learning, and learning in human and non-human animals. Students explore the cognitive processes of attention, memory, and concept formation, and their role in learning, and various applications of learning, including education, advertising, and addictions."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150 or NEUR 170		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 261	Personality Psychology	"Explores approaches to understanding the emotional, social, and behavioral functioning of the individual person. This course traces the study of personality from classic theories based on clinical observations to contemporary theories based on empirical research. Students learn about the field's major debates and research findings, and analyze individual cases as a means of illustrating and applying each theory. The ultimate goal of the course is to have students integrate the knowledge they have gained to form a coherent understanding of the person."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 262	Psychopathology	"Our understanding of mental health issues and disorders is continually expanding. This course aims to broaden students' understanding of psychopathology and current mental health disorders, to strengthen students' abilities to recognize problematic behaviors and to determine what to do in the face of them, and to encourage critical interpretation of current theories and findings in psychopathology. Students will consider multicultural issues and current empirical research on mental health disorders."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 263	Social Psychology	"A survey of social psychology, the scientific study of human feeling, thinking, and behavior in social contexts. The course considers both proximate (immediate) influences on behavior, such as the immediate social situation as well as distal (more remote) influences on behavior, such as human evolution. Topics include social attitudes, judgment and decision making, persuasion, conformity, close relationships, altruism, aggression, prejudice, and intergroup conflict. The application of social psychology to education, health, and economics is also examined."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 264	Child Psychology	"How do humans grow and change from the prenatal period through adolescence? What factors influence development, and how do the contexts in which children spend their time help to determine development? These are the major questions considered in this survey of the various domains of development--primarily social, emotional, and cognitive--and the settings in which development occurs--with family, with peers, in schools, for example. Students learn about theory and empirical research on human development, and they also consider how this research can be applied when working with children."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 275	Biological Psychology	"Focuses on issues concerning cellular and behavioral/cognitive neuroscience and is designed for students majoring in psychological science. The first part covers neuroanatomy, neuronal structure and function, brain evolution and development, movement, and cellular models of memory. The second and third parts take students through cognitive neuroscience, sensory systems, sleep and dreaming, language, emotion, ingestive behaviors, psychopathology, and cognitive aspects of learning and memory. Also teaches basic methodology so that students learn the many ways to ask and answer questions about brain and behavior in humans and non-humans alike. Normally does not count towards the neuroscience major."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 300CO	Tps in Cognition:Consciousness	An intermediate-level course in specific psychological science topics offered by various staff members. Students should contact the department regarding the topics offered during any given term.	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 300NE	Topics in Neuroscience: The Embodied Mind	An intermediate-level course in specific neuroscience topics offered by various staff members. Students should contact the department regarding the topics offered during any given term.	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (PSYC 200 or NEUR 201 or NEUR 202)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 300SO	"Topics in Social, Developmental, Personality, or Clinical Psychology: Attachment"	"Overview the attachment system from birth throughout the lifespan. Covers parent-child attachment, adult attachment, and romantic attachment. Students discuss attachment from the social, developmental, biological, and evolutionary perspectives. Centered around empirical literature, but students also apply this material to everyday life and relationships."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 309	Quantitative Methods in Behavioral Research	"An introduction to statistical procedures and quantitative concepts used in psychological science, this course emphasizes principles of research design and analysis in the behavioral sciences."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150 or NEUR 170		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	Psychological Science majors should complete this course by the end of the junior year.
PSYC 309L	Quantitative Methods in Behavioral Research Lab	Required corequisite to PSYC 309.	PBSC	0			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 341	Psychological Criminology	"An introduction to concepts of psychological criminology. The primary aim is to understand the factors that make a person a criminal. A number of factors are examined, including evolutionary, biological, personality, developmental, environmental, cognitive, and behavioral perspectives. Interactions between individual differences and environmental influences are also examined. Related topics, such as psychopathology and substance use, are discussed. The course includes the analysis of individual cases, and special consideration is given to prevention and treatment initiatives."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 342	Close Relationships	"Relationships can be a source of great joy when they go well and great sorrow when they go wrong. Although scholars and everyday people have always been interested in understanding relationships, only in the past 30 years or so have behavioral researchers turned their attention to understanding the processes that regulate behavior in meaningful relationships with friends, family, and romantic partners. This course will explore leading theories and empirical studies in the literature on adult relationships."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 343	Sleep Psychology	"Why do we sleep? Why do we dream? Do we really need to get 8 hours of sleep a night to perform our best? How is sleep affected by our neighborhood, job, family, or culture? In this discussion-based course students critically analyze diverse theoretical perspectives and recent empirical research that seeks to answer these questions. Students examine sleep at multiple levels of analysis, including its biological underpinnings, methods of assessment, and developmental changes across the lifespan, as well as common sleep disorders and connections between sleep and learning, dreaming, and health. The second half of the course addresses environmental influences on sleep and explores ways to improve sleep in diverse populations via intervention and policy."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 344	Addiction	"Can anyone become addicted to anything? Are cell phones more addictive than cocaine? Why would a person self-identify as an ""alcoholic?"" Can addiction be cured? Students explore theories and foundational and cutting-edge empirical research in the field of addiction from the perspective of clinical psychological science. Material crosses substances and cultures."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 351	Attention & Memory	"Attention and memory are at the core of how humans come to know and act on the world as well as forming the basis of who they are as individuals. This course is not a survey as it focuses on a few areas within attention and memory and studies these areas in depth, exploring seminal and current theories and empirical findings in human attention and memory from a cognitive perspective. Examples of problems which may be addressed include bottom-up vs. top-down attention allocation, dual-task performance, inhibition and attention control, attention and working memory, memory for skills, auto-biographical and emotional memories, memory impairments, and memory in everyday life (e.g., memory loss with age, Alzheimer's dementia, alcoholic dementia)."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200 and (PSYC 250 or PSYC 251)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 352	Origins of Human Thought	"Studies the origins of human thought from a variety of perspectives, including developmental, cross-cultural, and comparative. Each of these perspectives provides unique evidence concerning ""origins."" Developmental psychology examines the origins of thought within the lifespan of the individual within a particular culture; cross-cultural psychology examines the degree to which ways of thinking originate culturally; comparative psychology studies the evolutionary origins of thinking by making comparisons among species. These different approaches to studying ""origins"" are applied to a few focused topics in human cognition, such as origins of speech, concepts and categories, perception of objects, and perception of music."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 353	Visual Perception and Cognition	"Our everyday visual experiences typically yield a sense of certainty in that we believe we are operating directly from information in the world around us. Despite such a belief, many of our decisions and actions depend on perceptual inferences derived from our internalized representations of external information. Put another way, many of our decisions and subsequent actions are the direct result of our brains making guesses based on fabricated information. The purpose of this course is to explore how perceptual and cognitive processes act to formulate low- and high-level visual representations of the physical world, and how those representations inform (and are informed by) our knowledge of the world. The vast majority of the readings for this course employ behavioral paradigms that target the neurological (functional) underpinnings associated with visual representations and knowledge structures. Therefore, it contains a mix of both behavioral and neurophysiological components (with an emphasis on functional neuroscience)."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 355	Language and Thought	"Language is a distinctive human ability that distances humans from the rest of the animal kingdom - including chimpanzees, with whom people share 98 percent of the same genetic inheritance. Although language is considered as primarily serving communication in its advanced form, it is also an important vehicle for thought, with the potential to extend, refine, and direct thinking. The interaction of language with other cognitive abilities is the central focus of the course. Students compare the communication systems of other species with human language, examine efforts to teach human language to apes, learn how psycholinguists conceptualize and investigate language-mind relationships, and inquire into the cognitive abilities of various types of language users, such as bilinguals and deaf and hearing signers. Attention also is given to evolutionary changes in the neural structures implicated in human language and to neural processes constraining the developmental course of language acquisition."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)	Global Engagements	Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 360	Bonding across Boundaries: A Service Learning Experience	"Aims to engage students in considering ways to break down the barriers that young adults with disabilities face as they seek vocational, social and recreational opportunities within our communities. Students read research literature at the intersection of social psychology and disability studies that explores the psychological and social experience of disability. They then participate in an extended service-learning experience in which they collaborate with local teens and young adults with autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders on projects that build on their common interests and serve the wider community. Students keep a journal throughout the semester, prepare a proposal describing their collaborative community engagement project, and complete an evaluation study of their project."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 361	Psychotherapy and Behavior Change	"Explores the major models of psychological treatment in adults and children. Each treatment model is examined in terms of its perspective on human behavior and psychopathology, its mechanisms and techniques of therapeutic change, and its empirical evidence. Also addressed are some of the recurring controversies in the field of clinical psychology: Should clinical research and practice inform each other and, if so, how? Can the disparate treatment models and their implicit world-views be integrated? To what extent is lasting behavior change possible?"	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 362	Social Bonds	"Explores the ontogenetic (developmental) and phylogenetic (evolutionary) roots underlying human social relationships. Social bonds are traced through the lifespan, beginning with parent-infant attachments, moving next to peer relationships, and ending with pair bonds. Students examine the interplay of social cognition, social perception, emotion, and communication in human sociability. Patterns underlying human social bonds are deciphered using research from child, social, cross-cultural, evolutionary, biological, and comparative psychology."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 363	Developmental Psychopathology	"Introduces the study of psychological problems in the context of human development. Using a broad, integrative framework, the course examines childhood psychological problems from a variety of perspectives (genetic, biological, temperament, socioemotional, family, and cultural). Syndromes that often first appear in childhood and adolescence are discussed, including autism, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, conduct disorder and youth violence, depression and suicide, anxiety disorders, and eating disorders. The course also examines developmental resilience, environments that place children at risk for poor outcomes, and prevention."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 364	Human Motivation	"Motivation is the energy behind human actions. Can people control their own desires? How do emotions energize behavior? What satisfactions contribute to a happy life? These questions are of interest to psychologists studying human motivation. This course begins by examining basic biological motives, such as hunger and aggression, and progresses toward the study of more complex motivational phenomena such as curiosity, striving for success, and falling in love. By drawing from physiological, cognitive, social, and personality psychology, this course provides a unique opportunity to examine some of the most interesting questions in psychology from a variety of perspectives."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 365	Cross-Cultural Human Developmt	"To what degree does culture shape and constrain the development of human ability, thought, and behavior? What features of human behavior lie beyond culture's reach? In pursuing these questions, students study how sensorimotor, perceptual, emotional, cognitive, social, and personality development proceed in diverse cultural contexts. Theories of human development and the cross-cultural methodologies used to test them are critiqued in detail. Inquiry is framed by an understanding of cultural and biological evolution and incorporates readings from developmental and cross-cultural psychological science, and from anthropology and sociology."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 309 is recommended.
PSYC 366	Psychology of Leadership	"An exploration of the psychological forces that give root to human dominance, hierarchy, and leadership. Guided by evolutionary, developmental, and cross-cultural perspectives, questions about social power and leadership are addressed using empirical literature: To what degree are motives for social dominance--and social docility--embedded in human nature and traceable through primate evolution? What traits and competencies distinguish leaders from followers, how early do these differences develop, and is the pattern the same for girls and boys, and for men and women, across the globe? How do some leaders and groups cultivate followers so devoted that they adhere to destructive directives? Contemporary problems in leadership provide illustrations."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 367	Advanced Social Psychology	"Perhaps more than anything else, people think about other people- the people with whom they are close, those who shape conceptions of the self, motivate behavior, and produce strong emotional reactions. The field of social psychology is devoted to understanding how people feel about, think about, and interact with others. This advanced social psychology seminar offers a contemporary, in-depth exploration of different topic areas within the field of social psychology. Students investigate primary literature on some of the most vexing, provocative, and important issues of our time."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 368	Prejudice and Racism	"Provides a survey of the psychology of prejudice and racism, the scientific study of human feeling, thinking, and behavior in situations involving conflict between groups. More broadly, the course examines the psychological factors that contribute to the perpetuation of inequality and discrimination. Students consider both proximate (immediate) influences on behavior, such as the immediate social situation, as well as distal (more remote) influences on behavior, such as human evolution. Both motivational approaches to understanding prejudice (e.g., explaining prejudice as a consequence of the desire for social dominance) as well as cognitive approaches (e.g., explaining prejudice as a byproduct of automatic associations people learn) are examined."	PBSC	3	PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 372	Health Psychology	"Health psychologists seek to understand the relationships among psychological factors, behavior, and physical health. Topics covered in this course include the effects of stress, depression, and personality characteristics on people's susceptibility to and recovery from illness; the role of psychotherapy, social support, and meditation in helping people with chronic illnesses survive longer; and the significance of psychological factors in alternative medical treatments such as acupuncture. The course also considers in detail how the nervous, endocrine, and immune systems interact to mediate the relationship between psychological processes and physical health."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 200		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 375	Cognitive Neuroscience	"Cognitive neuroscience is an interdisciplinary field - drawing from chemistry, biology, medicine, neuroscience, psychology and philosophy - that explores the relationship between the mind and the brain. The scope of this course is broad, focusing on brain mechanisms for such diverse processes as sensation and perception, attention, memory, emotion, language, and consciousness. Students read primary journal articles on case studies from the clinical literature of patients with localized brain damage and reports from the experimental and neuroimaging literature on the effects of invasive and noninvasive manipulations in normal subjects. Mind-brain relationships are considered in the context of cognitive theories, evolutionary comparisons, and human development."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 200 is recommended.
PSYC 376	Functional Neuroanatomy and Neural Development	"The first quarter of the course focuses on mechanisms of neural development including proliferation of stem cells, migration, differentiation, and synapse formation. The latter portion of the class examines the function of neuroanatomical regions and their relationship to the variety of symptoms associated with schizophrenia. As the more overt symptoms of schizophrenia do not appear until late adolescence, knowing how and when various regions of the brain develop is essential for understanding the emergence of various neurological deficits in this disease."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and BIOL 182 and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 377	Psychopharmacology	"Discussion on the effects of drugs upon psychological processes and behavior in humans. Readings in the textbook treat the mechanisms of action (physiological and neurochemical) of various classes of drugs used in therapy or ""on the street."" Readings in professional journals illustrate the experimental study of drug effects in humans and in animals."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 378	Topics in Neuroscience: Neuroscience of Reward and Motivation	"Covers a range of topics related to the reward system: its importance in motivation, reward-related learning and maladaptive behaviors such as addiction, gambling, eating disorders, avolition, self-injurious behaviors etc. Students read and discuss scientific articles pertaining to basic mechanisms, circuitries and neuroplasticity underlying reward-related learning and maladaptive motivated behaviors."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (PSYC 200 or NEUR 201 or NEUR 202)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 379	Fundamentals of Neurochemistry/Neuropharmacology	"Focuses on two diseases: relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis and idiopathic Alzheimer's disease. The initial portion of the course examines the various methods neurochemists utilize to answer questions about these two diseases. The remainder of the course focuses on the epidemiological, neuroanatomical, cellular, biochemical, and molecular aspects of the two diseases. Multiple sclerosis is a more intercellular question examining the interaction of immune cells and the glia of the nervous system whereas Alzheimer's disease tends to focus more on intracellular mechanisms leading to the synthesis of beta-amyloid and the formation of neurofibrillary tangles, the two hallmarks of this disease."	PBSC	3	(PSYC 275 or NEUR 170) and BIOL 182 and CHEM 263 and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 379L	Fundamentals of Neurochemistry/Neuropharmacology Lab	Required corequisite to PSYC 379.	PBSC	0			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 381	Behavioral Genetics	"An introduction which demonstrates that nature and nurture both play a fundamental role in the development of behavioral traits; and how genes interact with the environment to shape the development of various behavioral traits. The course uses an interdisciplinary approach that integrates the studies in genetics, neuroscience, and behavior; with a comparative approach to explore human and other animal models; and cover the traditional behavioral genetic methodologies as well as modern molecular genetic techniques."	PBSC	3	(NEUR 170 or PSYC 275) and (NEUR 201 or NEUR 202 or PSYC 200)		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 384	Fundamentals of Neurophysiology	"This seminar and laboratory course examines the physiology of the nervous system. Topics include ion channel structure and function, synaptic transmission, second messenger systems, neuromodulation, the neurophysiological basis of behavior in ""simple"" animals, the evolution of neural circuits, the cellular basis of learning and memory, and the cellular basis of selected human nervous system diseases."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 275 or BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 385	Neuroethology	"Neuroethology is a sub-field of neuroscience focused on the study of the neural basis of natural behavior. Many types of behavior and a wide array of animals are studied, and the approach is often comparative and evolutionary. Students delve into the neuroethological literature, examining the neural basis of animal communication, navigation, movement, sensory processing, feeding, aggression, and learning."	PBSC	3	NEUR 170 or PSYC 275 or BIOL 182		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	PSYC 309 or BIOL 220
PSYC 385L	Neuroethology Lab	Required corequisite to PSYC 385. Laboratory exercises teach methods of behavioral analysis and electrophysiological recording techniques.	PBSC	1			Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 498	Senior Research	"Psychological science majors plan and carry out one-term research projects under the guidance of faculty members in the Psychological and Brain Sciences department. For those who wish to be considered for honors or high honors, two-term thesis projects are required. Honors students may fulfill the requirement for two semesters of research by enrolling in PSYC 498 in the fall and PSYC 499 in the spring semester. On occasion, students who are not pursuing honors or high honors may complete two semesters of senior research by taking PSYC 498 in the fall and PSYC 491 in the spring. With permission, PSYC 450, or PSYC 460, when offered, may be substituted for PSYC 498."	PBSC	3	PSYC 150 and PSYC 200 and PSYC 309 and one other 300-level course		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 499	Senior Research	"Psychological science majors plan and carry out one-term research projects under the guidance of faculty members in the Psychological and Brain Science department. For those who wish to be considered for honors or high honors, two-term thesis projects are required. Honors students may fulfill the requirement for two semesters of research by enrolling in PSYC 498 in the fall and PSYC 499 in the spring semester. On occasion, students who are not pursuing honors or high honors may complete two semesters of senior research by taking PSYC 498 in the fall and PSYC 491 in the spring. With permission, PSYC 450, or PSYC 460, when offered, may be substituted for PSYC 498."	PBSC	3	PSYC 498		Natural Sciences & Mathematics	
PSYC 591	Research Methods in Psyc Sci		PBSC	3				
PSYC 592	Prejudice and Racism		PBSC	3				
PSYC 593	Developmental Psychopathology		PBSC	3				
PSYC 594	Topics: Attachment		PBSC	3				
PSYC 595	Psychotherapy & Behav Change		PBSC	3				
RELG 101	The World's Religions	"An introduction to the variety of the world's religions, such as Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, and the indigenous faiths of Africa and America. The course explores and compares religious beliefs, values, practices, rituals, texts, images, and stories, in their historical, cultural, and political contexts. It examines diversity and concordance within each tradition, encouraging students to reflect thoughtfully on the nature of religion and the ways it shapes communities and individuals through the world."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 102	Religion and the Contemporary World	"Explores the mutual impact between religions and contemporary global issues. How do diverse religious individuals and communities address the prominent moral concerns of our times? What do religions offer the contemporary world, especially in an era in which secular, atheistic, and spiritual critics alike have singled out religion as a noxious influence in human society? Potential topics of focus include terrorism, genocide, religion and politics, war, gender and sexuality, health and medicine, poverty and class disparity, environmental justice, science and technology, and secularization. In examining such questions the class serves to sharpen students' present-day understanding of religion and to provide students with a framework for making sense of some of today’s most controversial political, social, and philosophical issues."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 203	Comparative Religious Ethics	"Examines the ethical dimensions of a variety of religious traditions and considers them in light of one another. As a comparative course in the study of religion it aims to give students a better sense of what role religious traditions play in cultivating forms of moral thought and behavior, and how specific traditions might begin to think about ethical issues. That is, students investigate how these traditions envision morality as such but also how they think concretely about violence, gender, poverty, and the value of human life. This comparative approach to the study of religion ultimately hopes to prompt students toward a consideration of what is, as well as what is not, ethical about these traditions."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 204	Hindu Mythology	"An exploration of the Hindu gods and goddesses of India through their myths. For centuries Indians have been telling stories about the gods through sacred scripture, folklore, and pilgrimage traditions, and more recently in comic books, television series, and films. Through close readings of India's mythic and epic texts communicated through diverse media, students gain an introduction to Hinduism as a dynamic, living religious tradition. Anyone attempting to understand the complexities of Indian culture, politics, and society soon encounters the gods and goddesses of the Hindu tradition. Besides introducing student to these fascinating figures and their stories, the course seeks to explore broader questions in the study of religion including the politics of gendered visions of the divine, and the effects of the medium on the transmission of religious messages."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 206	Hindu Goddesses		RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 207	Chinese Ways of Thought	"Provides an introduction to the Chinese worldview, examining Chinese philosophical and religious thought from the Warring States period (453-221 BCE), Neo-Confucian thought from the Song Dynasty (960-1279), and later periods. Classical Chinese thought was defined by the violence of the times and was therefore directed toward the question of how social harmony might be established and maintained. Later Confucian thought, under the influence of Buddhism, introduced additional questions about ethics and the human relationship to the cosmos. These intellectual traditions influenced generations of Chinese scholars and officials, and they also give insight into some of the unique aspects of Chinese society today. The course considers attempts by modern-day scholars (""New Confucians"") to apply Chinese thought to contemporary ethical and political problems."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 208	Hebrew Bible in America	"The Bible is not only the best-selling book in America, but is arguably the book that has most profoundly shaped the United States. This course is an introduction to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament in its American contexts, particularly American public life. In reading the Hebrew Bible, students ask themselves how these scriptures have shaped American politics, culture, history, and literature. Who has used the Bible and how? To whom does the Bible now speak, and what does it say? In what sense is the Bible understood to be an American text? This course presumes no knowledge of the Christian or Jewish Bibles."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 213	The Bible and/as Literature	"What role does literary art play in the shaping of biblical narrative? How does the construction of the sacred text reflect its theological meaning? The religious vision of the Bible is given depth and subtlety precisely by being conveyed literarily; thus, the primary concern in this course is with the literature and literary influence of the received text of the Bible rather than with the history of the text's creation. As students read through the canon they establish the boundaries of the texts studied, distinguish the type(s) of literature found in them, examine their prose and poetic qualities, and identify their surface structures. Students also consider the literary legacy of the Bible and the many ways that subsequent writers have revisited its stories."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 214	Muhammad and the Qur'an	"Provides an in-depth introduction to the Qur'an, the life of the Prophet Muhammad, and the centuries of interpretative debates among both Muslims and non-Muslims over the meaning of these two foundations of the Islamic tradition. Students begin with an immersion in the earliest Islamic primary sources, reading excerpts from the Qur'an itself and the first biography of Muhammad ever written. Next, students examine recent scholarly debates over the nature of Muhammad's movement and message. The second half of the course adopts a more thematic approach, looking at issues like the place of women in the Qur'an, the authority of reason vs. revelation, Qur'anic ethics, and Western depictions of Muhammad."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 217	Violence and Religion in Asia	"Students consider how persons use religious discourses and practices in imagining and conceptualizing an ideal form of ethnically or religiously majoritarian state. In the current global modern context, the state has often withdrawn partly or fully from some spheres through deregulation and privatization. At the same time, other forces are ascendant, among them organized religions. They often favor what is perceived as an earlier, purer, and better way of life. How should one explain the roles currently played by religion, including militant violence across Asia? Is it a revolt against the uncertainties produced by modernization? How do people interpret foundational religious concepts when responding to changing circumstances including the place of state and non-state? Students access broader questions regarding not only how religious discourses dictate and regulate the modern states in Asia but how modern secular discourse accommodates their novel positioning. Attending to ways in which people draw on religious ideas in their critique of the state also reveals the contested ideas on virtues and violent activities."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 218	"Seeing, Feeling, Believing: Black Religious Thought through Visual Art and Performance"	"What can visual art and performance tell us about Black religion? Students explore this question by considering how historical and contemporary Black artists use mediums such as photography, painting, tactile installation, embodied movement, and sound to consider religious ideas. Students bring these creative works into conversation with scholarship in Black religious thought concerning a range of themes, including conjure/ancestral connection, Black liberation, ecstatic feeling, otherwise worlds, hope/pessimism, and the human. As a result, students gain an understanding of the profound ways that questions of religion and life meaning deeply inform and animate Black artistic and aesthetic cultural expression."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 221	Asian Religions: India	"The Republic of India is the world's largest and most religiously diverse democracy. However, people in our society know little about India and often carry misconceptions. Together, students explore the ways that religion, politics, society and culture interplay in modern India. Learning about religion’s role in the modern nation-state benefit students with varied academic interests. Students are introduced to some of the religious traditions of India, including Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, Christianity and Sikhism. In addition to introducing the academic study of religion, questions are raised relevant to international relations, political science, history, and more. India provides an excellent setting to examine concerns we face today, such as: How might religion promote climate justice, or undermine it? How does religion relate to structures of social hierarchy? How do ancient wisdom and myth inform politics in the post colonial nation-state? Asian Religions makes a great first course in Religion, and Asian Studies, and has no prerequisites. Catalog Course Description: How should we understand the relationship between religious texts and lived experiences? Why do religious differences sometimes harden and sometimes become porous depending on the context? Focusing on a single place and its people can help us break down traditional frameworks for understanding religion and reveals instead a much more dynamic image of religious diversity. Students are introduced to at least three major religions in a particular Asian region. In the process, it problematizes the traditional portrait of distinct and timeless world religions by taking a deeper look at the lived experiences of religious practitioners in one designated Asian society. The course utilizes a kaleidoscopic and multidisciplinary approach to the study of religion, allowing students to identify and appreciate the complex and sometimes unexpected ways in which religious practitioners live in diverse societies."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 222	Comparative Scripture	"Based on comparative scriptural analysis or what is now called ""Scriptural Reasoning."" The focus will be on close readings of the Hebrew Bible, New Testament, and Qur'an with an eye to common themes and differences. Students will engage in a comparison of interpretive traditions in Judaism, Christianity and Islam to see how particular scriptural passages are understood in the religious traditions. The course will also spend time studying the ways in which scriptural reasoning has been used as a form of religious conflict resolution and peace-building in situations of conflict in the UK and Middle East."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 226	"Reason, Religion, and God"	"Examines the similarities and differences between rational and religious understandings of God. By pursuing close readings of classic texts in the field of philosophy of religion, students considers how both philosophical and religious ideas are often developed together. Students explore various arguments about the rationality of God as responses to wider intellectual, cultural, and historical contexts in which they are made and to the specific shape and needs of a particular religious tradition (e.g., Catholicism, Protestantism, or Judaism). Students also explore the ""rationality"" of religious forms such as scripture, symbol, ritual, and prayer. In different semesters, select themes such as revelation, theodicy (the justification of God in the face of human suffering), providence and free will, or the theism/atheism debate are investigated."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 230	Feasting and Fasting: Religion and Food	"Examines a range of religious and cultural attitudes about food. What foods are celebrated? What foods forbidden? Who can eat what and when? Through a comparative approach to food restrictions and injunctions, feasts and fasts, and food-based rituals and liturgies in Jewish, Christian, Muslim, and Hindu traditions, students investigate the role food plays in defining religious boundaries and identities."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 232	Health & Heal in Asian Relg	"This course looks at how illness, health, and healing are understood and experienced in parts of Asia where illness is not defined merely as a physiological problem, but is also seen to have important spiritual, aesthetic, social, and political causes and effects. Similarly, while biomedicine defines health as the absence of disease, in traditional Chinese and Indian medicine, health is about achieving balance between different elements in the body, such as wind, water, and fire. This course will enable students to develop an appreciation for the culturally and historically patterned ways in which people come to identify and treat bodily, psychological, and social distress. For instance, we will examine spirit possession in a variety of contexts as both a form of affliction and as a mode of healing. We will look at the role of traditional healers; how cultures vary in what they consider to be the causes of illness; who gets sick; what forms illness takes; and how the social, political, and aesthetic dimensions of health and healing affect treatment outcomes. Readings will be drawn from the fields of ethnomedicine, medical anthropology, and the anthropology of religion, to explore how illness and health are conceptualized and experienced in different cultures and across different sites of healing."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 234	Women & Religious Traditions: South Asia	"Examines autobiographical, biographical, descriptive, and historical materials that present and analyze the lives of women in the context of various religious traditions. In a given term, students focus upon specific geographical areas, historical periods, and/or religious traditions."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 235	"Religion, War, Peace, and Reconciliation"	"Explores the role and function of religion toward peace and reconciliation. Students examine the scriptural, theological, and ethical teachings of various religions on justice, conflict resolution, peace, and reconciliation. Students also examine the theological writings on justice, war, and peace by Augustine, Aquinas, Luther, and Schleiermacher. Using concrete case studies of conflict and reconciliation, students explore the teachings of African religion, Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism, and Islam on nonviolence, peace-making, relationship of peace and justice, as well as evaluate the negative and positive contributions of these religions toward conflict. Students examine religious and interreligious conflicts (Northern Ireland, India/Pakistan), religious language and symbols (Rwanda), current attempts at peace reconciliations (Bosnia, Liberia), and the role of religions and the causes of situations of conflict (the Middle East). Of particular interest is an examination of situations in which the political process was shaped and defined to a greater degree by religious leaders and their communities (South Africa)."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 236	"Religion, Science, and the Environment"	"In the 17th century, religion lost its claim to the cosmos; the religious knowledge of the order of nature ceased to possess any legitimacy in the new paradigm of science that came to dominate the West. Until the 1960s, Christian thinkers considered it the great glory of Christianity that it alone among the world's religions had permitted purely secular science to develop in a civilization in which it was dominant. After several centuries of an ever-increasing eclipse of the religious significance of nature in the West and neglect of the order of nature, humans are now experiencing environmental crisis: global warming; the destruction of the ozone layer; climatic and weather pattern changes; soil erosion; death of animals, birds, and marine life; and the disappearance of some plant species. Today the very fabric of life is threatened and the future of our world hangs in the balance as nature is threatened by destruction caused by an environmental crisis that has gone unchecked for several centuries. What can be learned from religions of the world that will save humanity and nature? What is the relationship between religion, nature, science, and technology? Discussions include views from various religious traditions concerning nature, concept of the human, notions of progress and destiny, faith and science, ecological theology, ecofeminism, justice and sustainability, and spirituality."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 238	Contemporary Jewish Fiction: Adapting Sacred Texts	"Students will take on a variety of Jewish fictions, treating these both as works of art in their own right and as participants in a traditional or literary lineage. We will explore different ways of understanding ""adaptation"" as a concept across linguistic, temporal, and geographic axes and we will also consider Jewish texts and stories that push against and challenge definitions of adaptation. Anchoring our discussion in the Hebrew Bible itself, we will ask: Why adapt? Does the art of adaptation and remix take on particular resonances for Jewish diasporic and immigrant writers in the late twentieth-century and beyond? How do these authors and creators pull ""original"" works. stories and history into new contexts? How do they draw in readers and audiences to alternate, unfamiliar forms? How do popular genres deal with the weight of tradition? How do these fictions negotiate between the familiar and the strange, and to what ends?"	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 240	Religion and Terrorism	"Terrorists are often driven by extremist beliefs staunchly rooted in religious, racial, and ethical rationales for torture, violence, and genocide. The course provides a theoretical and empirical understanding, and explanation of terrorism. While tracing the history of terrorism to the ancient West, students will also identify various analytical approaches to the study of terrorism, recognize terrorist groups, and review terrorist tactics. Students will examine the ways that states counter terror, and the choices and the tradeoffs states face when confronting terrorism. Students will examine terrorist individuals and groups in Buddhism, Christianity, Hinduism, Judaism, Islam, and Sikhism such as the Ku Klux Klan, Timothy Mc Veigh, Republican Army in Ireland, Orthodox Rabbi Meir Kahane, Dr. Baruch Goldstein, Osama bin Laden, Boko Haram, Islamic State, and Shoko Asahara in Japan."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 241	American Jewish Thought	"In the United States, modernity developed in distinctive ways, including its tradition of religious toleration, its practice of welcoming (but also stigmatizing) immigrants, and its pragmatic philosophical orientation. Students study Jewish philosophical and theological responses to modernity in the American context, including Jewish pragmatism, existentialism, feminism, and mysticism. Readings are taken from figures like Kaplan, Heschel, Soloveitchik, and Plaskow."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 242	"Religion, Media and the Senses"	"Investigates the plurality of media, in relation to the plurality of the senses, historicizing them so as to better chart their influence in social and religious change. The first part of the semester will work to imagine a primarily ""oral culture,"" and focus on the importance of sound and hearing. Then, highlighting the radical media technologies of the invention of writing, and later printing, students will challenged to rethink how religious traditions operate in relation to these new media, and the growing dominance of vision in modernity. Ultimately, readings and themes will lead students to apply this history to contemporary relations between media and religion, including the presence of religion in photography, film, and the Internet."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 242L	"Relg,Media &Senses Film Screen"	Required film screening co-requisite for RELG 242.	RELG	0				
RELG 243	Religion in America	"Studies selected significant religious questions, themes and texts from American religious history. While the specific issues and topics vary, the course is typically organized around an investigation into the challenges and opportunities presented by America's extraordinary religious pluralism. Issues examined may include: inter-religious encounter from Columbus to the 1965 Immigration and Nationality Act, religion on the American ""frontier,"" the counter-cultural appropriation of Asian religions, the experience of migration, church-state relations, religion and media, and religion and social justice movements in America."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 244	African American Religious Experience	"This historical, theological, and contextual course examines the African American religious experience, including slavery in America, the struggle for freedom and identify, the development of the Black Church, Black Muslims, the Civil Rights movement, the emergence of Black and Womanist theologies, and other expressions of African American spirituality. Course readings include writings of such historical and contemporary authors as Frederick Douglass, W. E. Du B. DuBois, Martin Luther King, Jr. Malcom X, James Cone, Albert Raboteau, Jacquelyn Grant, and Lewis Baldwin."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 245	Religion in Contemporary America	"Religion continues to exert major influences upon the shape of American life at the beginning of the 21st century. Students study themes and controversies in American culture during the decades since the end of the Second World War, focusing upon the study of religious diversity and the changing religious landscape of America; issues of church and state; religion and politics; and religious ideas and values as they have shaped, and been expressed in, popular culture. Special attention is paid to the aftershocks of 9/11 on American religious dynamics."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 247	Death and Afterlife	"Examines various ways humans have attempted to anticipate, accept, deny, defeat, or transcend death. If death is rebirth, what is birth? What survives death? What stories and techniques have people shared to imagine immortality? Our approach is comparative, with emphasis on sacred stories and practices of Buddhists, Hindus, ancient Greeks and Egyptians, Jews, Christians, and Muslims and their legacies for our current debates over personal identity, sustainability, and memory."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 248	"Christianity, Islam, and Political Change in Africa"	"The course explores how Christianity and Islam have caused or influenced conflict and division or greater political and social freedoms in Africa. Select countries are examined as case studies: Nigeria and Sudan for conflict and division; South Africa and Malawi for democratization of society. The course covers the spread of Christianity and Islam, colonial (British, French, and German) policy and Christian missionaries' attitude toward Islam, separation of religion and state (the debate over Islamic Law, Shar'ia), and religion and politics. Movements within Islam (Islamic brotherhoods, Madhist movement) and Christianity (liberation, black, womanist/feminist theologies) are also studied."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 250	"Relg, Othring, Violnce Mid Age"	"Slaves, Muslims, Jews, Black Africans, lepers, prostitutes, homosexuals (now LGBTQ), and witches, were often viewed as foreigners and foes in the European Middle Ages. The course deconstructs the shifting and nuanced role religion played in constructing and regulating identity alterity, and notions of deviance, heresy, and Otherness across selected chronological periods and discrete geographical contexts. Primary and secondary sources foreground the strategic ways in which religious practices, prescriptions, canons, sacred texts, and mythic ideologies and prejudices coalesced with regional laws and practices to legitimate or transgress social and political boundaries, delimit daily social interactions, and foment individual, inter-religious, and group violence. Medieval religious texts, legal narratives, courtly literature, plays, romance, art and iconography provide captivating records of religion's role in fomenting justifications of militant piety, and conversely, tolerance and inclusion, toward minorities in the Middle Ages."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 251	Faith after the Holocaust	"The death of six million Jews at the hands of the Nazis in the Second World War represents a radical challenge to faith in Judaism, in Christianity, and in humanism. Study begins with a historical overview of the Holocaust and uses accounts of Holocaust survivors to articulate the challenge of the Holocaust to faith. Then students review philosophical and theological responses to this challenge by a variety of Jewish, Christian, and secular authors."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 252	"Religion, Plagues, Pandemics"	"Plagues, pandemics, and epidemics have visited fear, chaos, and death upon global communities and nations for millennia. Catastrophes like the Bubonic Plague of 14th century Europe (1348-50), plagues in the Ottoman capital (1522-921), early modern Africa (1494-1554), China (1770/71), and the 1918 American Flu pandemic, among others, precipitated world-shattering disruptions that mandated rapid and comprehensive recalibrations of social constructions of normalcy, social identity, and socio-cultural cohesion. The course identifies religion as a requisite multidimensional construct situated at the intersection of interdisciplinary theorizing and explanatory models regarding the etiologies of, and responses to, death-dealing disease and contagion. Religious understandings of calamitous plagues, pandemics, and epidemics are juxtaposed with the rise of medical and scientific understandings of these maladies within discrete periods."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 253	"Love, God, and Sexuality"	"A cross-cultural and multi-disciplinary approach to the questions of how the social and cultural significance of sexuality has been shaped by religious discourse, myth, doctrine, and ritual. How have various forms of sexual expression come to be seen as normal, while others are seen as deviant? How has passionate love served as a metaphor for the expression of religious experiences, such as the union of the soul with God? How have people thought to “channel” sexual energy to pursue spiritual projects, as in tantra and religious celibacy? Topics of study may include marriage, different- and same-sex love, virginity, celibacy, sacred prostitution, ecstasy and mysticism, and the role of transvestites, transsexuals, androgynes, and third-gender people in religious myth and ritual in contexts such as Christianity, Judaism, and Islam."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 253X	"Love,God,Sexuality/FLAC-Greek"		RELG	0				
RELG 255	"Church, State, Law in America"	"What do we mean when we talk about ""the separation of church and state""? Where does this principle originate? Are there exceptions? This course explores the relationship between religion and law in the United States. Students consider the question of what Americans mean when they speak of the separation of church and state and explore the ways in which the U.S. Supreme Court has attempted to implement this principle within American law. Students examine a variety of influential theories of church-state separation, and read some of the most important First Amendment cases of the 20th and early 21st centuries. This course does not assume any prior knowledge of U.S. religion or U.S. law."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 262	Islam in Our Post-9/11 World	"The September 11th attacks left an indelible mark on both American political discourse and the experiences of Muslim communities across the globe. This course asks: how should we conceptualize the relationship between Islam and the West in our post-9/11 world? Together, we will explore the history and ideas behind contemporary headlines in an effort to understand the roots of Islamist violence, American foreign policy towards Muslim-majority countries, Muslim debates over the future of their faith, and popular discourse on Islam in the West. We will look at a wide range of sources and perspectives in order to tackle these difficult but exceedingly relevant issues."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 265	Global Bioethics and Religion	"The revolution in biotechnology has given humanity powers unimaginable a few decades ago. Bioethics within the Western cultural tradition examines moral and ethical dilemmas arising from the interface of human experience and advances in biology, medicine, and technology (human embryonic stem cell applications, cloning, genetic engineering, euthanasia, etc.). Global bioethical inquiry places moral and ethical bioethics deliberations on the international stage, with a focused exploration of diverse and competing transnational theoretical debates. The course undertakes a critical study of comparative religious ethics and global bioethics issues within Judaism, Buddhism, Islam, Hinduism, and Christianity."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 281	Hindu Traditions	"As one of the world's most ancient, complex, and fascinating religious traditions, the study of Hinduism provides an ideal arena for examining central questions in the study of religion. Through close readings of primary texts in translation, this course focuses on the history of Hindu traditions from their origins to the development of devotional movements in medieval and early modern India. Following a chronological order, these texts include the hymns of the ancient Vedas, the investigations into salvific reality in the Upanishads, the religious epics, devotional poems in praise of gods, religious philosophy (Yoga and Advaita Vedanta), and classical mythology. While exploring the variety of forms Hinduism has taken, the class engages broader questions in the study of religions such as the construction of religious authority, the definition of the good life, conceptions of the soul, differences between elite and non-elite styles of religiosity, and the significance of gender in conceptualizations of the divine."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 282	Introduction to Islam	"In the desert landscape of 7th century Arabia, a middle-aged Arab tribesman and caravan trader named Muhammad began to hear the word of God and declared himself a prophet. Within decades, Muhammad’s message sparked a religious and social revolution that changed the course of human history. Students examine the rise of Islam, its emergence as a diverse global religion, and its multi-faceted encounters with Western-style modernity. Students begin by studying the Qur’an, the life of Muhammad, and the stories of his immediate successors. Who exactly was Muhammad, and what was the nature of his message? What challenges did the early Muslim community face? Following our exploration of the earliest phases of Islamic history, students then delve into the formation of two major streams of Islamic thought: shari’a (Islamic law) and Sufism (Islamic mysticism). The final third of the semester focuses on Muslim responses to European colonialism and Western-style modernity. Specifically, we examine colonial-era changes to shari’a, the Iranian Revolution, the rise of violent Islamists like Al Qaeda and ISIS, and modern Muslims living in the West."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 283	Introduction to Judaism	"As a minority culture, throughout history, Jews and Judaism have always been subject to the influence of the majority cultures in which Jews have found themselves. In response to the shocks of modernity, ruptures, scientific advancements, and philosophical ideas and challenges, Jewish thinkers, culture, and individuals formulated responses—religious and otherwise. In Experiencing Judaism, students will explore how Judaism has responded to modernity, the “age of secularism.” To wit, students will focus on distinctively modern expressions of Judaism: the range of denominations, their historical origins, ideologies, and attitudes to Jewish law and its development, secularism, religious and secular Zionism. Students will explore these developments through primary texts within their historical contexts to better understand contemporary Judaism as it is expressed and practiced, mainly in North America and Israel, as a religion and also as a culture."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 284	Christian Traditions	"This historical study of the development of the central Christian beliefs examines the development of the early creeds, the emerging of ecumenical consensus, and philosophical elaborations. The course highlights African contributions and involvement in the ecumenical councils (the first 500 years) that made major decisions concerning the central elements of the Christian tradition."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 285	Buddhist Traditions	"Students will explore the many faces of Buddhism across time and space and seek to understand what has made Buddhism so successful. Some of the major themes running through Buddhism in various times and places include the allure of the motif of renunciation, the roles of scripture and literature in orienting devotion and community, an economy of merit wherein material goods and respect are offered to the Buddha and his community of monks and nuns in exchange for better rebirth and, ultimately, salvation, and Buddhism’s confrontation with modernity, the West, and science."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 286	Catholic Traditions	"Central to this study is the understanding of Roman Catholicism as a living, dynamic, multi-faceted set of religious traditions. The focus in Fall 2022 is on global Catholicism from the Second Vatican Council (1962-5) to the present, although the full panoply of Catholic history, doctrine, and liturgy is under review. Topics will include the Church’s self-understanding, the contexts of American Catholicism, cultural pluralism within global Catholicism, and contemporary issues such as war and peace, social and economic justice, sexuality and reproduction, grassroots liberation efforts, and environmental concerns."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 288	American Indian Religions	"Introduces students to the variety of American Indian traditional religions and historical religious movements. After an evaluation of the methods used in understanding Indian religions and a survey of culture areas, students look at American Indian concepts of the supernatural, mythology, ceremonialism, dreams and visions, medicine, witchcraft, shamanism, nature-relations, and conceptions of the soul. In a given semester, examples from Navajo, Lakota, Skagit, Inuit, Hopi, and Ojibwa religions are described in some detail, in order to show how the individual characteristics are integrated; then students examine the effects of Christian missions and the most important religious movements among American Indians since white contact: Handsome Lake's Religion, Ghost Dance, Peyote Religion, and others."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 289	African Religious Traditions	"This course is an exploration of the nature and varieties of indigenous African religions. Issues examined include cosmology; concepts of divinity; ancestors; person; meaning of sacrifice; symbols and ritual practice; the relationships among art and religion, politics, and religious institutions; and the challenge of social change, Christianity, and Islam to indigenous religions. In addition, students examine the different methods used in studying African religions."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 295	Tibetan Buddhism	"What accounts for the popularity of Tibetan Buddhism among certain Hollywood elite as well as a growing number of Chinese in the world today? Why did Tibet give rise to the unique institution of the reincarnating lama, best known in the West through the figure of the Dalai Lama? What goes on in Tibetan monasteries, the largest monasteries in world history? Understanding the answers to these questions requires that one examine the place and privilege of religion and Buddhism in particular in Tibetan culture. Through the close reading of the autobiography of a Tibetan saint, Buddhist myth, ethnographic descriptions, and philosophical treatises, as well as Buddhist art and other media, students come to understand the centrality of religion to many aspects of life in Tibet, and gain a basic understanding of Buddhist philosophy, ritual/contemplative practices, pilgrimage, popular practices, monastic life, and other facets of religion and life in Tibet."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 308	End of the World	"Investigates the origin and evolution of apocalyptic literature and movements from antiquity to the present, beginning with the Second Temple and early Christian periods. What existential and ideological factors give rise to convictions of the world’s cataclysmic destruction, or civilization-altering fate? Why do apocalyptic movements forecast the inevitability of such life-threatening catastrophes as national or global revolution and warfare, plagues, ecological catastrophes, or profound existential threats from bioengineering or artificial intelligence menaces gone awry? Particular attention is focused on the sociohistorical factors that fuel and heighten apocalyptic fervor within discrete historical periods, inclusive of contemporary post-apocalyptic reconstructions of new world orders that inspire allegiance, hope, and notions of paradisal tranquility."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 310	Sharia Law	"Addresses Islamic jurisprudence from the historical background of Islamic law, known as Shari’ah, namely the five Sunni and Shiite Schools of Law, the concept of “Ijtihad,” and Islamic criminal law. Students also study the relationship between Islamic and other systems of jurisprudence. Consideration of Muslim theology offers an important context for understanding Islamic law."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 320	Native Peoples and Modern Law	"Explores the role of Native peoples in the creation and ongoing development of modern law. It begins with an investigation of the use of Native peoples as a representation of human savagery within early modern European political thought — a representation that allowed political theorists to depict law as a solution to such savagery. More recently, and more positively, it explores the important role that indigenous peoples have played in the propagation of religious free exercise rights and international human rights law. Focusing particularly on the legal negotiation of Native religious practices in the US, this course encourages students to think critically about some of the most basic tenets and mechanisms of modern secular law."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 321	Religion in Modern India	"What does Mahatma Gandhi’s reading of the Bhagavad Gita have to do with shamanic healing practices in the Himalayas or statues of Jesus painted blue in South India? They are some examples of the diverse sets of beliefs, practices, institutions, and communities that constitute religious life in modern India and that students will encounter in this course. Rather than view religion as an unchanging, closed, and monolithic assemblage of texts and concepts, students shall focus on how religious traditions are lived, practiced, and reconfigured by individuals and communities across this region. In so doing, we will explore how religion in India continues to engage, in vital ways, changing historical realities since the decline of the Mughal empire through the advent of British colonialism into the postcolonial present. Students will read historical and ethnographic writings not only about Hinduism but also Buddhism, Jainism, Islam, Sikhism, and Christianity, while becoming familiar with significant theoretical and methodological currents within the broader academic study of religion."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	"Familiarity with the religions of India through courses such as CORE 166, RELG 281, ARTS 244, or HIST 362 is advised."
RELG 329	Modern Islamic Thought	"Over the past two centuries, Islam - like many other religions - has experienced a series of radical challenges and transformations. This course untangles the nature of these changes by focusing on the two most significant streams of modern Islamic thought: Islamism and Islamic modernism. Students explore questions like: how did various Muslims respond to European colonialism? How do Islamist thinkers envision justice, relations with other religious groups, and the role of violence in constructing an Islamic state, and what are the differences among them? How have Muslim modernists in turn worked to fuse Western-style modernity and the Islamic tradition? In order to answer these questions, students read a variety of primary sources from influential Muslim thinkers as well as contemporary scholarship on the Islamist and modernist movements."	RELG	3	One course in RELG or MIST	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 331	The Problem of Evil	"Why do bad things happen to good people? Why does a benevolent, all-powerful God permit evil? Students explore some of the historical, philosophical, and religious perspectives on the etiology, manifestations, and functions of human suffering and evil within global human communities."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 332	Contemporary Religious Thought	"Selected historical perspectives on the connections among religion, violence, and power as a context for contemporary studies of the role of religion in society. Most of the course focuses on liberation theologies, with their emphasis on hope, empowerment, and right relationships. Voices of liberation theologians may be drawn from Latin America, Asia, and Africa, as well as marginalized people in the United States. The latter include womanist, mujerista, Latino/a, Asian-American, African-American, Jewish, homosexual, and feminist groups; most integrate personal experience with theological reflection."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 335	Religion in the Genetic Age	"Twenty-first century genetic technologies present humanity with unprecedented possibilities for re-engineering human life and experience: genetic tailoring to treat and eradicate diseases, the creation of designer children, cyberconsciousness and unlimited physical prowess, radical life-extension technologies, and the development of virtual human beings. Scientific tinkering with food DNA heightens interest in “Frankenfoods,” while genetic tinkering with animals has raised the spectre of “Frankenbeasts.” The course foregrounds issues in the science of genetics and genethics—the social, ethical, legal, and, in this course, the notably religious implications of modern genomic and technological development - with an assessment of the promise and perils of these achievements for the future of humankind."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 336	Religion and Capitalism	"Christianity is freedom. Freedom is free enterprise; hence capitalism is Christianity in action. Following contemporary research, students will explore the relation from the high medieval monasteries to the present, highlighting the 17th and 18th-century Christian and Jewish farmers and traders, 19th-century British industrialists, and the 21st-century consumers, financiers and traders in commodities and various financial instruments (e.g., stocks, bonds, equities, derivatives, and securities, etc.). The course will investigate how worldviews and religious teachings order a lifestyle and a value system that inform and influence a particular economic activity. The course includes: what capitalism is (i.e., its elements and types, and the classical theories of capitalism); investigate the religious views, the cultural and social history that gave rise to capitalism, and the intellectual and economic innovations that turned capitalism into a system. Topics of discussions will include: capitalism and the environment, poverty and the Puritan work ethic, culture and global capitalism, capitalism and moral values, and the relation between contemporary spirituality and capitalism."	RELG	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 338	"Sex, Law, and the American Culture Wars"	"Explores the American church-state debate through the lens of abortion, contraception, and same-sex marriage. These sexual freedom and reproductive rights issues raise questions that reach to the very heart of the American political project. What is the scope of our right to engage in private behavior? Do longstanding religious and moral traditions have a place within a secular legal system? Are there limits to the Constitution's guarantee of religious free exercise, and, if so, how do we determine these limits? These issues have generated intense social and political conflict, and are at the center of today's ""culture wars"" in the U.S. This course will provide students with a robust background in the legal history of these issues, and will furnish students with a framework for making sense of some of today's most contentious political battles in the U.S."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 339	Modern Jewish Philosophy	"A course on European and American Jewish thought, covering a spectrum of liberal and traditional figures. The course studies the ways in which Jewish thinkers have responded to the challenges of modern philosophy, religious pluralism, and feminism. Modern reformulations of traditional Jewish ideas and religious practices are discussed as well as contemporary theological exchanges between Jews and Christians. Readings are taken from such figures as Mendelssohn, Buber, Rosenzweig, Heschel, Fackenheim, and Plaskow."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	Previous courses in the Jewish tradition and/or philosophy are recommended.
RELG 342	Our Secular Age	"Do we live in a secular age? Most of us would assert that we do, but what do we mean when we make this claim? Are we referring to the political separation of church and state, to a decline in religious beliefs and practices, or to something else? These questions have recently come to occupy a central place within the study of religion. This course explores the topic of secularism from a variety of angles, including differing notions of what is meant by the term ""secular""; an examination of the historical development of secular ideas and institutions; a comparison of different secular political projects; and a series of important critiques of secularism. This course encourages students to think critically and creatively about the relationship between ""the religious"" and ""the secular,"" and it thus enhances students' understanding of religion, secularism, and modernity more broadly."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 343	Gender and Judaism	"Focused on the creation and conception of gender within Judaism. Students explore the ways in which gender is built into the scriptures, structures, institutions, and ideologies of Judaism, into Jewish religious, cultural and social life. According to Genesis, from the beginning there were male and female. To what degree are these two categories essential? To what degree artificial? How do religion and tradition enforce the gender divide, and in what ways can they be used to blur the distinctions between male and female?"	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 344	Jews and Anti-Judaism	"Explores the origins of the ""oldest hatred"" from its earliest traces in the Hebrew Bible to the present while using this knowledge to test different theories of antisemitism and develop our understanding of how it has changed in every age. Amidst the examination of the development and manifestations of premodern anti-Judaism in its many forms-including the killing of Jesus, the blood libel, host desecration, usury, well-poisoning, and world conspiracy-students will also look to Jewish religious and cultural responses to Christian allegations in an effort to understand the extent to which tensions with their Christian neighbors defined Jews' lives. The course will then turn its focus to modern expressions of antisemitism other than the Holocaust. Students will learn how modern antisemitism is characteristically different from its premodern predecessor anti-Judaism. What mechanisms did Jews develop to survive in the face of irrational hatred?"	RELG	3	CORE 151		Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 346	Cognitive Science of Religion	"Central to much research in the cognitive science of religion (CSR) is the question of how the human brain and its evolved capacities inform and constrain the transmission of religious beliefs and ritual practices. The cognitive science of religion also seeks to answer why it is that certain beliefs and specific practices appear to outperform and outlive others. More generally, the CSR seeks to explain the persistence and pervasiveness of religious beliefs and practices throughout human history by drawing on the theories and methodologies of a range of disciplines, including cognitive neuroscience, social psychology, behavioral ecology, and several others, as well as disciplines more traditionally associated with the study of religion. Scholars in CSR embrace a variety of methods, including textual analysis, quantification of historical and archaeological data, statistical analysis of ethnographic data, controlled laboratory experiments, and mathematical modeling. This course is a survey of the most influential of the CSR theories and methods in the field."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 352	Theory & Method-Study of Relig	"Takes a critical look at the history of religious studies in the modern West and proceeds to chart some contemporary developments. Some of the issues that may come under investigation include, but are not restricted to, the quest for a science of religion, the impact of gender and race theory on religious studies, theories of religion and violence, the secularization of academic approaches to religion, and the nature of religion itself. The broad aim is to deepen reflection on the ways in which religion can become an object of study."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 411	Senior Seminar in Religion	"Presents students with the opportunity to explore their own research interests and expand upon work that they have undertaken in previous religion courses. Students will read a selection of advanced texts related to the broader study of religion, and, in consultation with the faculty member, will undertake collaborative research, writing, and peer-editing of an independent research paper on a topic of their choice."	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 490	Spec Studies for Honors	Students pursuing honors in religion enroll in this course.	RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 591	The Bible and/as Literature		RELG	3			Human Thought and Expression	
RELG 591L	"Relg,Media &Senses Film Screen"		RELG	0				
RELG 592	Religion and Capitalism		RELG	3				
RELG 593	Our Secular Age		RELG	3				
RELG 594	Thesis: Restraint in Freedom		RELG	4				
RELG 595	Thesis: Part II		RELG	3				
REST 121	Elementary Russian I	"Combines an overview of Russian grammar with an intensive emphasis upon classroom communication and the development of oral skills. In addition to the textbook, students make use of an array of web-based materials ranging from interviews with contemporary Russians, to YouTube videos, to cartoons in order to provide students with a sense for life in Russia today, as well to facilitate rapid acquisition of the language. Students cover the fundamentals of Russian grammar, learn a great deal of vocabulary, and should be able to converse effectively in a variety of everyday situations in Russian."	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
REST 122	Elementary Russian II	"Combines an overview of Russian grammar with an intensive emphasis upon classroom communication and the development of oral skills. In addition to the textbook, students make use of an array of web-based materials ranging from interviews with contemporary Russians, to YouTube videos, to cartoons in order to provide students with a sense for life in Russia today, as well to facilitate rapid acquisition of the language. Students cover the fundamentals of Russian grammar, learn a great deal of vocabulary, and should be able to converse effectively in a variety of everyday situations in Russian."	SOAN	3	REST 121		Human Thought and Expression	
REST 150	Russian Popaganda	"Students in this interdisciplinary course consider how contemporary Russian pop culture—from Pussy Riot to Putin memes—engages with state ideology. Coursework is grounded in the post-Soviet era, yet also looks at how Russia's current pop cultural attitudes to ""facts"" and ideology relate to the artistic and political practices of the Soviet past. Course materials include films, literature, visual art, performance art, and internet memes, as well as official state sources of mass information, from the Kremlin website to press releases. Finally, students consider the relationship between these developments in Russia and in US political discourse, through conversations surrounding ""fake news,"" deep fake, and troll farms. All students are welcome: no previous experience with Russian language or culture is expected."	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
REST 201	Intermediate Russian I	"Complete the presentation of the fundamentals of the language and focus upon further vocabulary acquisition and developing more advanced conversation and writing skills, as well as real-life Russian in context. Students work through digitized segments of a beloved romantic comedy, The Irony of Fate to greater understand cultural commentary and develop transcription skills."	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
REST 202	Intermediate Russian II	Students gain additional proficiency in the Russia language by developing more grammar skills and gaining increased proficiency in reading and writing. Oral communication is also emphasized.	SOAN	3	REST 201	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
REST 210	Oil and Water: Globalization and Resource Control in Central Asia (Extended Study)	"Examine the history and geography of cultural and natural sites in Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan to analyze how the control of oil and water resources have shaped urban growth, prosperity, and their sustainability over time in this locations. Regarding water resources, students examine how the ancient treatment of water resources sponsored the growth of trading kingdoms along the Silk Road. Regarding hydrocarbon resources, these resources were treated religiously and only later were valued as fuel in the pre-modern world. Recent Empires and authoritarian nation-states in the region have deal with both types of resources more profligately. Students travel to Uzbekistan and Azerbiajan to visit the ancient oases of the Silk Road and the bustling modern cities that persist in these same sites along a new 'silk road.'"	SOAN	3				
REST 245	Russia at War	"Examines five Russian wars fought between 1800 and the present: the Napoleonic wars, the Crimean War, World Wars One and Two, and the current conflict in Ukraine. Russia's modern wars have been particularly (although certainly not uniquely) traumatic, with profound impacts on government and citizen alike. The course examines the ways in which the events leading up to war, wartime conditions, and eyewitness accounts were recorded and internalized by citizens and managed by an autocratic state to create collective historical understandings of events. By analyzing the changing ways in which social hierarchy, gender and exclusivity have been structured during and in the aftermath of war, the course offers an important guide to understanding the emergence of ethno-nationalism in one of the world's largest and longest­lasting multi-ethnic Empires."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
REST 250	"Cyborgs, Unite! Sci-Fi for Post-Humans"	"Introduces students to a wide range of science fiction literature and film from the 20th century to the present day, with a strong emphasis on works from Russia, the Soviet Union, and Eastern Europe. This region offers some of the most sophisticated works of science fiction, owing to the radical ""otherness"" of its philosophical and political traditions and the challenges it offers to dominant Western constructions of self, nature, and society. Focusing on philosophical, ethical, and environmental questions, students will discuss such topics as human-machine interfaces and ethics, life-extension and transhumanism, space travel and colonization, and the prospects and perils of the rationally-planned society. Course readings are in English. No prior experience in Russian studies required."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
REST 253	"Lust, Murder, Redemption"	"Written by an educated elite, eerily self-conscious because of czarist censorship and political repression, 19th-century Russian literature nevertheless confronts many of the crucial concerns of human existence. It often focuses upon characters who are at an existential breaking point because of ideological, spiritual, sexual, or economic pressures. Students read a combination of short stories and novels, concentrating upon canonical ""greats"" (Pushkin, Lermontov, Turgenev, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, and Chekhov) but also sampling lesser-known writers, including neglected female authors. By examining literary depictions of such social institutions as warfare, dueling and gambling, courtship and marriage, adultery and spousal abuse, work and leisure, the course emphasizes the relationship between literary text and cultural context. Particular attention is paid to the cultural construction of gender, as well as the relationship between humans and nature. A range of theoretical and critical texts informs discussions, as do film adaptations of certain works. All works are read in translation, but a CLAC section of the course may be offered for advanced Russian language students who are interested in trying to read selections in the original Russian."	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
REST 254	"Hope and Reality, Delusion and Dissent: Story-telling in the age of Communism, Nazism and Exile"	"Examines life under Communism as distilled through the fiction of Russian, East European, and Jewish writers who experienced it firsthand. Students follow the intertwining of political and private life from the inception of a new regime, with many people exuberantly hopeful, through the various stages of acquiescence, resistance, escape, and sometimes death. Authors include Chekhov, Mayakovsky, Babel, Vasily Grossman, Kundera, and Nabokov."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
REST 255	"Then and Now: Russia and Ukraine; Courage, Conformity, Atrocity"	"Addresses problems that are contemporary and urgent. They are at the same time rooted in regional history—meaning that solutions require regional knowledge—and, for better and worse, universal. Course material oscillates between the regional and the universal, looking at texts (novels, poems, essays, histories) that focus on issues of courage and conformity under Stalin and Hitler, and trying to understand their implications for us now, including in the United States. Writers include Czeslaw Milosz (poems and essays); Vasily Grossman and Lidia Chukovskaya (fiction); Timothy Snyder (history and contemporary analysis); Jonathan Rausch (contemporary analysis)."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
REST 258	Reading the Russian Revolution	"This interdisciplinary course examines and re-examines the Russian revolution(s) through a close study of histories, cultural products, historical roots, later interpretations, and re-imaginings. Beginning with the idealists, nihilists, and terrorists determined to bring the Russian monarchy to an end in the 19th century, students explore history, politics, and culture through a range of genres and media--from the 19th-century Russian realist novel, the political manifesto, the avant-garde film, revolutionary poetry, to the works of seminal historians who have shaped how we ""read"" the Russian revolution today. Is the revolution over, so to speak? Are we ever finished with an historical event of such monumental consequence? Course requirements include readings, film screenings, local Hudson events, and an excursion to New York City's Museum of Modern Art."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
REST 303	Russian in Context	Focuses on developing strong reading and translating skills while also developing students' command of written and spoken Russian. The course explores some aspects of Russian and Eurasian culture.	SOAN	3	REST 202		Human Thought and Expression	
REST 306	Advanced Russian	"Reading, discussion, and writing in Russian. Texts will be from contemporary online sources. Focus is on improving spoken Russian skills. Grammar review will be included as needed for readings."	SOAN	3	REST 202		Human Thought and Expression	
REST 323	Arctic Transformations	"The Arctic is one of the most rapidly changing regions of the world today, environmentally, culturally, and politically. Rapid biophysical change occurs here today due to climate change, but equally noteworthy are cultural, social, and political transformations experienced by people living and working in the Arctic. People are under increasing pressure to change along with transformation of their biophysical environments, particularly as new actors express interest in the Arctic as space opening up to global transportation, mineral exploration, and trade and ecotourism. Within geography, interest in Arctic phenomena includes grappling with complex issues related to social and biophysical changes in this region, which often originate beyond the region but have specific meaning for the regions. Students investigate three vibrant areas of Arctic transformation: cultural transformation occurring among indigenous and local peoples, biological and physical transformation of the environment, and political transformation within and related to the region."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
REST 333	Human Rights in Russia and Eurasia	"Addresses human rights in Russia and Eurasia. Begins by comparing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with the Soviet Union’s conceptualization of citizen rights and builds from there to understand current issues and concerns regarding rights in this world region. Part 1 provides an historical understanding of how human rights were envisioned and practiced in the Soviet era. Part 2 explores how human rights conceptualizations changed when the Soviet Union and Russia engaged openly with the West during perestroika and the 1990s. Parts 3 and 4 investigate the continuing legacy of authoritarianism in this region and what this suggests for individual (Part 3) and societal (Part 4) rights. A mixture of lecture and discussion assumes timely completion of readings and assignments to participate in small- and large-group class discussions throughout the semester. The final project asks students to develop a country profile to examine one human rights concern in one of the fifteen post-Soviet republics. Final student presentations place human rights in Russia and Eurasia in historical, cultural, and spatial contexts to understand how they are linked by shared histories and enduring entangled futures."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
REST 343	Formation of Russian Empire	"A study of politics and society in the Russian lands from Kiev to Alexander I. The course focuses especially on the rise of the Muscovite state, its cultural diversity, and its preoccupation with trade, treason, and winning wars; the Petrine reforms and Russia's emergence as a European power; the palace coups; and Catherine II and the Enlightenment. (PR)"	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
REST 354	"Terror, Dissent, 20th-C Lit"	"Examines life under tyranny – Soviet and Nazi – as distilled through the fiction of Russian/East European and Jewish writers who experienced it firsthand. An intertwining of political and private life from the inception of a new regime, with many people exuberantly hopeful, through the various stages of acquiescence, resistance, escape, and sometimes death. Readings include Timothy Snyder’s essay On Tyranny, stories, novels, and poems by Chekhov, Mayakovsky, Babel, Vasily Grossman, Kundera, and Nabokov."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
REST 359	Power in Russia from Gorbachev to Putin	"Examines the domestic and international politics of the world’s largest country. Students track the weakness and disorder of the chaotic 1990s under Boris Yeltsin, and the birth of a new system on the ashes of Communism. Students examine the rise of Russian power and prestige under Vladimir Putin and his centralizing innovations to strengthen political and economic institutions. The course also considers dissent and protest movements, the national conflicts with internal minorities, as in Chechnya, and projection of power over the post-Soviet ""Near Abroad"" and the construction of a corporatist-style system that presents new challenges to the global dominance of ideas about democracy and capitalism."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
REST 412	Senior Seminar	"In this seminar students explore the theoretical, methodological, and linguistic challenges that underlie serious research in Russian and Eurasian studies. In addition to common readings and assignments, each student pursues an individual research topic, updating other seminar participants periodically via presentations and selected readings. By semester’s end each student has produced a substantial research paper that utilizes Russian primary sources appropriately. Students who wish to pursue a thesis topic in the spring will be required to obtain permission from the faculty supervisor and the department to enroll in an independent study in the spring semester following the senior seminar."	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
REST 490	Honors	Students pursuing honors in Russian and Eurasian Studies enroll in this course.	SOAN	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SOCI 101	Introduction to Sociology	"An introduction to sociology, with special emphasis on American society, using a historical and comparative focus. Introduces students to some of the basic concepts and methods used by sociologists. Students consider a selection of topics: racial inequality, class reproduction, gender roles, work and society, social movements, bureaucracy, and crime and deviance."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 201	Classical Social Theory	"Examines some of the chief methodological and theoretical approaches used in the social sciences, primarily focusing on Marx, Durkheim, and Weber. In addition to original texts, works of anthropology and sociology are used to integrate the classics with a contemporary focus."	SOAN	3	SOCI 101 or FSEM equivalent		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 212	"Power, Racism, and Privilege"	"Familiarize students with theoretical and historical perspectives of racial inequality and other ethnic and minority group relationships. The course primarily examines the relationship between racism and the socio-economic and political development of the United States. Course readings, lectures, and discussions are intended to aid students in gaining a clear understanding of the role race and ethnicity have played in shaping contemporary US society as well as the larger social world we live in and to therefore contribute to each student’s self-understanding and to a better understanding of others whose racial-cultural backgrounds are different."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 214	"Stories of Our Lives: Narratives, Meanings, and Identities (RI)"	"Narratives, meanings, and identities are important elements of human culture, and students are guided through a research-intensive review of how to study and make sense of these pervasive, if often subtle and taken-for-granted categories. Narratives are the stories we learn, share, and retell that help us understand the world and our place in it. Meanings include the embedded assumptions and values that we assign to social situations and encounters. Identities are often given to us through social structures but are also intensely personal and provide ways for us to cultivate a sense of self. Students explore narratives, meanings, and identities by learning and practicing qualitative research techniques such as interviews, oral histories, content analysis, and observation. Qualitative data analysis software is used to plan, organize, and analyze the research, and students gain hands-on experience in all stages of the qualitative research process."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	SOCI 101
SOCI 216	Sociology of War	"In the modern world, war has been thought of primarily in terms of clashes between nations; but in recent years there has been increasing interest in war as conflict between state and non-state actors. The course examines these rival conceptions of warfare through an exploration of colonial wars, the world wars, the armed conflicts surrounding the Cold War, and some more recent military confrontations. It looks especially at how armed conflict has taken place between states and other kinds of entities — national liberation movements, criminal syndicates, warlords, terrorist groups. It asks what the consequences of changing patterns of conflict are for our sociological understanding of the nature of warfare. A particular focus is on treating war as a cultural phenomenon; studying how it is remembered and commemorated, inquiring into the self-understandings of formal and informal military organizations, and surveying how war figures in popular culture."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 220	"Gender, Sexuality, and Society"	"An interdisciplinary exploration of gender and sexuality as primary markers of social inequality in our society and among the most salient organizing agents of our everyday lives. Course readings span several disciplines, including literature, history, philosophy, sociology, and psychology. Students analyze gender and sexuality using comparative historical and sociological perspectives. Subthemes of the course include culture, socialization, body and performance, intersectionality, essentialism, privilege, resistance, and social change."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 222	Media and Modern Society	"Introduction to concepts, theories, and issues related to mass media and society. Over the last 200 years tremendous changes have revolutionized the nature of mass communication in modern societies. Designed to provide a basic understanding of the nature of mass media and its social significance. It addresses the impact of different types of communication from information exchange, to news, to entertainment, to advertising. Students are introduced to a wide range of media including print, telegraphy, film, recorded sound, radio, television, and digital. This course is about analyzing how media texts are produced; why some messages enter mass media channels and others do not; how these messages affect audiences and how audiences receive them; and the general impact of mass media on contemporary society, culture, and politics."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 224R	SRS: Research & Reflection		SOAN	1				
SOCI 228	Immigration	"An introduction to international migration, with a focus on post-World War II migration. Geographically, students focus on immigration to the United States from Latin America, where the bulk of post-1965 immigrants come from. Begins by introducing students to basic concepts and approaches related to migration studies. Students further examine different stages in the migration process, including the processes of migration, the adaption/incorporation of immigrants in U.S. society, and the future ""assimilation"" of their children."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 230	Gender and Glblztion in China	"How can we understand gender in a contemporary world? How do masculinities and femininities form? How do macro-level transformations in global political economy impact individuals at the micro-level and reshape their gendered lives? Students will explore these issues under the specific context of post-reform China. Why do we witness a revival of traditional patriarchal ideology in China today alongside rapid economic modernization and growth? Why do Chinese women feel ""left-over"" despite the nation's 34 million male-female gender imbalance? What does China's impotence epidemic reveal about changing public attitudes toward sexuality in an increasingly globalized space? Students will explore some of the deeply rooted causes behind social phenomenon that may appear inexplicable to onlookers, and examine the causes and consequences of social change in contemporary China. Moreover, students will look at China as not only a location where globalization takes effect, but also a site where new gender norms are being produced and making a significant impact on the rest of the world."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 240	Fascism and Right-Wing Extremism: A Historical Sociology	"The rise of right-wing extremist movements and of their influence within 'mainstream' political parties and governments has been a major feature of world politics in recent years. This course deals with these trends in a number of major countries (including the US, UK, Germany and India), examining the various sociological approaches that attempt to explain these movements through analyses of economic change, cultural change, and racial/ethnic ideologies. Centrally, students are asked whether or not there are parallels or continuities between these movements and the historical Fascism of the 1919-1945 period. Students will consider the major theoretical approaches to the study of Fascism and Populism in the sociological literature and survey some key examples of historical Fascist regimes and movements. Students will also study movements, both in the present and the past, which have attempted to oppose right wing extremism, asking whether they comprise a coherent political tradition."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 245	"Nature, Culture, and Politics"	"The words ""nature"" and ""the environment"" conjure up visions of wild animals and open landscapes, but are people part of nature, too? This course shows how nature and human culture are intertwined, both in terms of how we shape our environment as well as how it shapes us. Through a series of case studies, students explore this relationship, focusing especially on the way that nature and culture are ""political"": inequalities, social problems and movements, and power relations all flow from the way that we interact with our environment. The course takes a global, comparative, and historical view of this process, and includes the following special topics: the rise of environmental awareness and environmental social movements; globalization and environmental values; consumption and the environment; environmental inequalities and justice; risk, technology, and environmental politics; and public policy and the environment."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 250	Sociological Research Design and Methods	"Introduces students to both the dominant areas of inquiry in sociology and the methods that have been devised to investigate them. Emphasis is on investigation. Familiarizes students with the methods, techniques, and language of social science research. Focusing on field and survey research, students examine the ways social scientists formulate questions, collect and analyze data, and present their findings. Also concerned with the epistemological underpinnings of “doing sociology.” How do sociologists define “fact” and “truth”? What are the historical and contemporary debates over these concepts? To provide students with a hands-on understanding of concepts and issues, students are expected to collect and analyze original data. Students also do computer statistical analysis of pre-existing databases."	SOAN	3	SOCI 101 or FSEM equivalent		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 254	Community-Based Research	This course introduces students to the principles of community-based participatory research within the context of sociology to critically examine the role of power and positionality in the construction of knowledge and difference. Students will learn a range of community-based participatory research approaches and reflect on how to form collaborative relationships that incorporate community perspectives and interests in the research process. Students will devote time outside of class to work in partnership with local community organizations to carry out a high quality research project that meets a community need. Research projects will be identified in collaboration with the Upstate Institute based on community needs and student capacity.	SOAN	3	SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 303	Sociology of Education (RI)	"An introduction to current theory and research on the role of education in contemporary US society, focusing specifically on higher education. Students will learn how to use a sociological lens to critically examine education as a social institution. This is a research-intensive course that requires students to conduct original empirical research related to inequality in higher education. (RI)"	SOAN	3	SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	Prior completion of at least one research methods course
SOCI 304	Sociology of Disasters	"Offers an introduction to the theory and research on the sociology of disasters, with a focus on cases from Latin America and the Caribbean. Students learn how to use a sociological perspective to examine disasters as socially constructed phenomena. Students interrogate the “naturalness” of disasters by focusing on questions of vulnerability, disaster preparedness, government response and recovery, as well as questions of coloniality and power."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 305	Urban Sociology	"Urban structures and problems are examined with an emphasis on the ways in which cities are embedded in a broader social and cultural milieu. The traditional concern of the impact of urban development on behavior is juxtaposed to an analysis of current fiscal problems and the potential for cities to grow, stagnate, or collapse."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 306	Sociology of the Family	"The family is a personal, social, and political institution. Students critically consider how a range of historical, cultural, economic, legal and social factors shape our notions of family. Students examine recent family demographic trends and changes in gender roles and ideologies, and in doing so, investigate how and why family forms and decisions are differentiated by social class, race-ethnicity, gender, and sexuality. In addition, students examine the implications of different family formation trends for individual and child-well-being. Finally, students draw on sociological research and perspectives to evaluate how social policies impact families, including same-sex families, poverty and welfare, work-family balance, marriage promotion and father involvement, and sex education and contraception."	SOAN	3	(SOCI 201 or SOAN 204) or (SOCI 250 or SOAN 210)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 310	Sociology of the Body	"Bodies are raced, classed, and gendered, and unequally valued depending on social context and social system. Bodies are regulated and disciplined, through invisible coercion as well as brute force. Yet bodies also resist. Students examine the different social meanings and values human bodies accrue as well as the multiple possibilities of agency and transformation."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 312	Social Inequality	"Analyzes social structure and social stratification, emphasizing economic class, life styles, differential prestige, and inequality. The theory of social class and its measurement is discussed, and the change and stability of social class is considered. Comparative examples of stratification are examined, although the emphasis is on the American class system."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 313	Env Prob & Env Actvsm in China	"Explores China's complex environmental issues, their historical roots, and social implications. It also examines the rise of environmental social activism in China. The course will utilize pedagogical methods from InterGroup Relations (IGR) to provide students with the intellectual tools to analyze issues of power, privilege, and identity and by extension, their own position in the world in relation to these environmental issues. This course is linked to an extended study to China. Students will travel to the People's Republic of China, where they will examine sites of environmental problems, but also meet activists and see their work in progress. The trip will also bring to the forefront some of the issues of power, privilege, and race issues that were discussed in the course."	SOAN	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 313E	Env Activism/China Extended St	"This extended study is linked to the on-campus course SOCI 313. Students will travel to the People's Republic of China, where they will examine sites of environmental problems, but also meet activists and see their work in progress. The trip will also bring to the forefront some of the issues of power, privilege, and race issues that were discussed in the course."	SOAN	2				
SOCI 313L	Env Prob & Actvsm in China Lab	"Examines the rise of environmental social activism in China; the historical, political, cultural, and economic roots of China's current environmental problems, including deforestation, air pollution, water pollution, and species loss. Students learn theories of environmental justice and explore the rise of environmental activism in the PRC. The course will utilize pedagogical methods from InterGroup Dialogue (IGD) to provide students with the intellectual tools to analyze issues of power, privilege, and identity and by extension, their own position in the world in relation to these environmental issues."	SOAN	1				
SOCI 318	"International Migration, U.S. Immigration, and Immigrants"	"Introduces students to approaches to the study of international migration, immigrant assimilation and adjustment, ethnic social and economic stratification, and immigration policy formation and analysis. These topics are explored within the historical and contemporary context of the United States and New York. The class considers theoretical perspectives that have been applied to the study of migration as well as approaches used by sociologists and geographers in empirical analyses of US immigration, immigrant populations, and ethnic relations. These analytical issues are considered in detail for immigrant and ethnic groups within New York State and the New York metropolitan community. Finally, students consider the relationships among patterns of immigration and ethnic relations, cultural change, international relations and transnational linkages, and US immigration policy reform."	SOAN	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 319	Food	"Food is fundamental — it sustains us and is essential for our survival — but food is more than just what we eat. Food is also a commodity with complex global markets and ecological impacts; it is highly regulated through our political processes and institutions; and it forms a key part of our culture and the social rhythms of everyday life. Students explore these many dimensions of food, focusing especially on key questions about where it comes from, how it is produced, and how it is embedded in our economic, political, and cultural institutions. Students participate in a service learning internship at Common Thread Community Farm in Madison, NY. Also involves field trips to and guest speakers from local food and farming communities."	SOAN	3	"SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or ENST 232 and students must have an open morning (no other enrolled courses) on Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday, from 8 a.m. until 12 p.m., in order to accommodate the farm internship component of the course."	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 320	Social Deviance	"Examines the nature and consequences of deviant behavior in modern society. Students develop an understanding of the historical development of the study of deviance, the main theoretical perspectives on deviance, and some of the substantive concerns in the study of deviant behavior. This includes conceptualizations and definitions of deviance, the emergence and management of deviant identities, deviant careers, deviant subcultures, accounts of deviant behavior, and the social control of deviance. Specific types of deviance studied include substance use, sexual practices, non-violent crime, violent crime, mental illness, and youth subcultures."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 321	Black Communities	"Uses a social scientific approach to examine the circumstances and dynamics characterizing black communities in the contemporary United States. Key areas of inquiry include the operation of major social institutions shaping community life, social class divisions, health and housing prospects, and the ways that the intersections of racial/ethnic identity, class, and gender shape the experiences of community members."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or ALST 202		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 324	Medical Sociology	"Introduces students to the uniqueness of sociological perspectives in understanding health care, and the social factors that influence health care. Students employ several levels of analysis: social history, social interaction, work roles, organizations, organizational relationships, and social policy. The framework for this course is that of social organization to show that the social organization of a society influences, to some degree, the type and distribution of disease, illness, and death found in that society. The social organization of a society also influences, to a significant degree, how the system of medical care responds. The values and assumptions underlying the medical definition of health are not necessarily the same as those underlying the sociological definition of health. A focus of the course is to examine race, class, and gender issues that influence the delivery of healthcare in this country. Attention is given to such topics as social epidemiology, the social demography of health, social stress, and illness behavior. Students also review the sick role, doctor-patient interaction, medical health professionals, hospitals and other health care agencies, and the healthcare delivery system in the United States and other countries."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 325	Sociology of Mental Illness	"A deep examination of the social construction of madness and mental illness. By employing both historical and contemporary perspectives, it explores the social, cultural, philosophical, political, spiritual, economic, legal and personal implications of medicalizing behaviors that violate everyday normative expectations. In addition, the course looks at how mental illness—both as a diagnosis and a lived experience—is influenced by key elements of social identity, including race, religion, social class, gender, and sexuality."	SOAN	3	SOCI 101 (or FSEM equivalent) or SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 326	Nations and Nationalism	"Nationalism is on the rise in the United Kingdom and the United States again, as well as in China, Russia, and elsewhere. But what exactly is nationalism? Why does it arise? And what are its effects on society? Students explore nationalism through case studies, both from history and in today’s news. Students investigate the relationship between nationalism and other social constructions of identity, such as language, religion, ethnicity, and gender. Also examines contemporary phenomenon undermining nationalism: transnationalism, multinationalism, and globalization."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 330	Race and Crime	"This course uses a social scientific approach to examine the relationship between race and crime in the contemporary United States, with a particular emphasis on the African American experience. Key areas of inquiry include the nature of mass incarceration, urban crime, the politics of the new law and order regime, the relationship between punitiveness and prejudice, racial profiling, the community-level impacts of mass incarceration, the legitimacy crisis facing the criminal justice system, media depictions of race and crime, and racial stereotyping."	SOAN	3	(SOCI 201 or SOAN 204) or (SOCI 250 or SOAN 210) or ALST 202	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 333	Sociology of the Life Course (RI)	"Takes the human life span as the primary unit of analysis. Individuals live their lives within socio-historical contexts and age-based frameworks. It is this framework that orders transitions between the various stages of life, constructs the various roles that individuals occupy over the course of their lives, and provides the set of historical conditions, ideas, and institutions by which individuals give meaning to their existence. Human lives are characterized by both continuity and change, and each human must negotiate the path of his or her life through a web of institutional networks. These pre-existing frameworks through which individuals travel are subject to the constraints of the past but are also open to possibilities created by each new generation. Understanding this complex relationship can not only broaden our notion of what it means to be human, but take our humanity to new heights as well."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 333L	Sociology of the Life Course Field Component/Lab	"This community-based learning ""field"" component, offered on an irregular basis, is an add-on to SOCI 333. It entails a minimum of 20 hours in the ""field,"" conducting interviews, attending workshops, fulfilling assignments, and constructing a final project in the form of a podcast in partnership with a community-dwelling elder."	SOAN	1			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 335	"Sociology of Death, Dying and Grieving (RI)"	"Focuses on the structural and cultural elements surrounding death and dying. Students examine death from the perspective of US- based health-care professionals, family members, institutions, the funeral industry, and the dying themselves. In so doing, students discuss who has access to “a good death,” ethical issues in how death is defined, how these realities are shaped by structural inequalities, and policy suggestions for the future. Initially, students focus on intersections between death and dying, COVID-19, race, gender, and age. From there the course readings expand out to biographical, journalistic and social science sources to explore cross-cultural rituals of death, dying, and grieving. This course fulfills a community-based (CB) learning component, as students visit (in some cases, virtually) a hospice home for the dying and/or a funeral home, and a local cemetery, participate in a Death Café, and explore writing their own obituaries. This course also counts as a Research Intensive (RI) course."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 337	Globalization and Culture	"Globalization has become one of the primary categories by which 21st century change is imagined. Scholars have used the concept to both justify and explain everything from increased social inequality to changing migration patterns to national growth to sectarian strife to corporatization to humanitarianism. Yet, globalization as a category has been ill-defined: is it primarily an economic, political, or cultural process? Where do we see the results of globalization and why? In this context, the city has taken on a renewed focus as the “site” in which these global processes take place, with airports, roads, multinational corporations, information technologies, supranational organizations, and financial centers facilitating global connection between cities. Students draw on anthropological literature and films on global urbanization to provide theoretical foundations and empirical case studies to critically respond to the question: What does the globalization of the city look like? Students choose their own city upon which to conduct secondary research drawing from scholarly articles, news media sources, and documentary film archives to create short essay films that illustrate how global processes reshape their selected urban locale."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 340	Work and Society	"This study of the organization of work in industrialized societies includes the following topics: technology and work; hierarchy and control in the workplace; women, minorities, and work; worker discontent; and the professionalization of work. Special attention is given to the topics of skill and technology, especially with regard to workplace democratization."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 348	Contested Identities: Pop Cult	"Popular culture is an important site for the expression of cultural identity and social conflict in America. This course views popular culture as an essential site in the cultural politics of America that involves the formation of ideas, identities, pleasures, and even desires. A central element in this cultural politics is the contested nature of American identity as well as the contested nature of social identities based on race, ethnicity, gender, class, sexuality, etc. Students also read theoretical texts that place popular culture and mass media in their social, economic, and political contexts. From conflicts over high art and popular art, to leisure and social class, to race and ethnicity, to film and the spectacle, to gender and the family, to sexuality and deviance, to cultural appropriation, students explore the rich, complex, and fraught history of American popular culture over the last 150 years."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or FMST 200 or FSEM 149		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 355	"Cult, Class, Pol: Soc Theory"	"The course charts the development of social theory since the classical social theorists, with a particular focus on how critical social thinkers have understood inequality and forms of social power. The course gives special attention to the relationship between social thought and its historical-political context, and notably its relationship to labor and anti-colonial movements and the “new social movements.” Central themes in the course include the problems of the idea of “culture”; how much an understanding of “class” can or cannot explain; and the status of notions of ideology, discourse, and materialism in contemporary social thought. Theorists who work may be covered include Gramsci, Norbert Elias, Karl Polanyi, C. Wright Mills, De Beauvoir, Fanon, Said, Bourdieu, Habermas, Stuart Hall, Anthony Giddens, and others."	SOAN	3	(SOCI 201 or SOAN 204) or (SOCI 250 or SOAN 210) or FMST 200		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 361	"Power, Politics, and Social Change"	"Examines the relationship between power, politics, and social change with a special focus on social movements. Considers questions such as: What leads to social movement? What do social movements do? What are the tools they use? The approach is historical and comparative. Students consider what social movements can tell us about society, and apply key sociological concepts to considerations of collective action. Students consider the building blocks of social movements from the perspective of a social movement participant, exercising the notion of ‘sociological competence.’ By studying social movements through the perspectives of both scholar and activist, students gain helpful tools for collective action and social change."	SOAN	3	ANTH 102 or SOCI 101 (or FSEM equivalents) or WMST 202		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 367	Sociology of Gender	"Drawing on theoretical and empirical research, as well as visual media and print news reporting, students explore gender as a primary market of social inequality in our society and a major impetus for social change. Specifically, students analyze how gendered ideologies, practices, and contexts shape social institutions such as work, family, medicine, sport, military, religion, and the beauty industry. They examine how institutions and bodies become contested sites for gender and sexual politics. Students also pay close attention to how gendered ideologies work in tandem with race, class, and sexual expectations, constraining (and sometimes enabling) bodies and lives. Students are encouraged to analyze US culture with a gendered lens."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or WMST 202 or FSEM 145		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 369	"Women, Health, and Medicine"	"Draws on interdisciplinary research and writings to explore the ways in which the nature, distribution, meanings, and everyday life experiences associated with health, medicine, and illness are shaped by historical, cultural, political, and economic factors. Covering both micro- and macro-sociological terrains, students utilize a gendered lens to critically analyze the construction of gendered medical problems and doctor-patient encounters throughout history, women's experiences in a male-dominated health care system, and social movements in response to medical injustices."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or WMST 202		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 375	Media and Politics [RI]	"Uses a social scientific approach to examine the role that the media plays in American politics. Key areas of inquiry include the function of the media in democracy, the news-making process, campaigning through the news, political advertising, media effects, governing through the news, and infotainment/satire."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250 or FMST 200 or FSEM 149		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 378	Social Theory of Everyday Life	"Since classical times, philosophers and historians have studied and recorded the details of everyday life with an eye to grasping the meaning of social practice. The past 50 years, however, have seen the bourgeoning of an exciting body of critical theory on the quotidian. Much of this work is concerned with profound questions about how the systems, structures, and practices of modernity shape basic human interactions with things, with places, and with other persons, and how these, in turn, reproduce social structures. This course presents sociological and anthropological texts concerned with everyday domesticity, cuisine, gesture, movement, activity, entertainment, talk, schooling, and bureaucracy, and explores the theoretical paradigms of knowledge, practice, and power to which these texts are ultimately addressed."	SOAN	3	SOCI 201 or SOCI 250		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 453	Senior Seminar in Sociology	"In this capstone seminar for the sociology major, students conduct original sociological research on the topics of their choice. Research projects grounded in sociological theory, review relevant literature on the topics, and collect and analyze data to find their own results. Each student’s project results in a significant thesis paper, through which students learn the process of doing sociological research and writing a sociological article. Seminars focus on a variety of broad topical areas in sociology, depending on the instructor."	SOAN	3	(SOCI 101 or FSEM 193) and SOCI 201 and SOCI 250 (SOCI 101 with a grade of C or higher)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	All Sociology majors should plan to take this course in the fall of their senior year.
SOCI 494	Honors Seminar	"Serves as a bridge to the Honors Thesis Workshop. Students develop a proposal and collect initial data for a substantive, research-based thesis project, to be completed in SOCI 495."	SOAN	3	(SOCI 101 or FSEM 193) and SOCI 201 and SOCI 250 (SOCI 101 with a grade of C or higher)		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 495	Honors and High Honors Thesis Workshop	"With the guidance of their instructor from SOCI 494 and a topical adviser from among the continuing faculty in sociology, students work to complete the projects begun in SOCI 494."	SOAN	3	SOCI 494		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOCI 591	"Power, Politics & Soc Change"		SOAN	3				
SOSC 210	Oil and Water Ext. Study	"Examine the history and geography of cultural and natural sites in Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan to analyze how the control of oil and water resources have shaped urban growth, prosperity, and their sustainability over time in this locations. Regarding water resources, this course will examine how the ancient treatment of water resources sponsored the growth of trading kingdoms along the Silk Road. Regarding hydrocarbon resources, these resources were treated religiously and only later were valued as fuel in the pre-modern world. Recent Empires and authoritarian nation-states in the region have deal with both types of resources more profligately. Students will travel to Uzbekistan and Azerbiajan to visit the ancient oases of the Silk Road and the bustling modern cities that persist in these same sites along a new 'silk road.'"		3	GEOG 328 or POSC 270 or GEOG 311 or (HIST 263 or FSEM 188)	Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SOSC 275	Volunteer Income Tax Assist	"Centered on service learning, where students prepare tax returns for low-income households in Madison and Chenango counties. Includes approximately 10 hours of class meetings and 15-20 hours of community service in the two-county area during the semester. Students work directly with various non-profit organizations. After successful completion of this course, students may participate again but can only receive credit twice."		1				
SOSC 275L	VITA Tax Session	Required co-requisite for SOSC 275.		0				
SOSC 405	Upstate Law Project	"Introduces students to the Social Security system, discusses the barriers that low-income and disabled families face in accessing social services and medical care, and introduces students to the following legal topics: legal analysis, legal ethics, Social Security disability law, and legal writing. Students engage in a practicum experience, which involves assisting the instructor, an attorney, with pro bono work helping low-income children (many of whom suffer from psychiatric illnesses) in securing benefits through the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program of the US Social Security Administration. The course practicum takes place at the Utica office of The Legal Aid Society of Mid-New York."		3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
SPAN 121	Elementary Spanish I	"The SPAN 121,122 sequence invites students to an introductory-level communication with the Spanish-speaking world. In SPAN 121, students become familiar with the mechanics of the spoken and written language while sharing information about themselves and their surroundings. Exercises and projects focus on learning about people, cities and music in Latin American and Spain through basic language structures. Students are strongly encouraged to continue into SPAN 122 to complete the year-long sequence."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 122	Elementary Spanish II	"SPAN 122 builds upon the skills acquired in SPAN 121 by enhancing mastery of the language through the use of short stories, video and audio exercises, and the exploration of other forms of cultural production in the Spanish-speaking world."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 201	Intermediate Spanish	"Designed to improve the student’s ability to understand, speak, read, and write Spanish. It includes a comprehensive review of grammar, regularly scheduled vocabulary study, conversational practice, short compositions, and laboratory exercises."	RMLL	3	Two or three years of high school Spanish or SPAN 121- 122		Human Thought and Expression	Students with more than 3 years of high school Spanish should not register for this course
SPAN 202	Intermed Spanish: Lang & Lit	"Continues to improve the student’s ability to understand, speak, read, and write Spanish and emphasizes development of reading comprehension. It includes a review of the more difficult points of intermediate grammar and focuses on the acquisition of skills necessary for the study of literature. Vocabulary study, conversational practice, and short compositions based on readings are included. Instructors will determine eligibility of students with more than 3 or 4 years of secondary school Spanish following review of language background."	RMLL	3	Three to four years of high school Spanish or SPAN 201 or equivalent	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	Recommended for students who have a good background in grammar but need further training in reading before taking courses at the 350 level.
SPAN 351	Spanish Literature: Knights and Troubadours in Medieval Spain	"Offers an introduction to Spanish literature from its medieval origins through the 15th century, with emphasis on the relations among literature, culture, and civilization. Works from different genres are studied, including epic poetry, Hispano-Arabic poetry, folk ballads, early theater, historical works, and short stories. Students explore issues of authorship, as well as the cultural, religious, and historical contexts that produced each work."	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Spanish or SPAN 202		Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 352	Spanish Literature: Love and Honor in the Golden Age	"This survey examines the interrelated notions of love, sex, and honor as they appear in the prose, theater, and poetry of Spain. Emphasis is placed on the Renaissance and the Baroque, the so-called Golden Age of Spanish literature (16th and 17th centuries)."	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Spanish or SPAN 202		Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 353	Spanish Literature: Modern Spain in Crisis	"Beginning with the loss of the empire in the 19th century and moving through a series of political upheavals, including civil war and fascism, the history of modern Spain has been one of turmoil and continual conflict. The numerous political crises resulted in larger crises of a social, spiritual, and moral nature. Questions of national identity, generational gaps, and gender, as they appear in Spanish literature from the late 19th century to the present day, are the focus of this course. Readings include works of prose, theater, and poetry drawn from a range of literary movements, and emphasis is placed on the socio-historical context and its relationship with literary innovation."	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Spanish or SPAN 202	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 354	"Latin American Literature: Illusion, Fantasy, Magical Realism"	"Through a survey of Latin American literature from its origins through the 20th century, this course examines the many forms of alternative reality that Latin American writers have created and explored. The course relates those realities to the cultural and sociological history of Latin America as well as to larger Western literary modes, such as the Baroque, Romanticism, and Surrealism."	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Spanish or SPAN 202		Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 355	Latin American Literature: The Many Voices of Latin America	"The course explores the diversity of literary voices in Latin America, from pre-Columbian texts to the contemporary writings of Castellanos, Rulfo, and García Márquez. This survey introduces students to the most important developments in Latin American literary history as it examines questions of cultural, ethnic, gender, and class identities."	RMLL	3	At least four years of high school Spanish or SPAN 202	Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 361	Advanced Composition and Stylistics	"Structured as an intensive composition class. Emphasis is placed on mastering the fine points of Spanish grammar in order to improve writing skills. In addition to regular class meetings, students are required to attend a series of cultural events, which may include film, theater, etc."	RMLL	3	"At least four years of high school Spanish, or SPAN 202"		Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 460	Span Renaiss & Baroque Poetry	"This seminar studies Spanish poetry of the 16th and 17th centuries. Particular attention is paid to three currents: the Petrarchan tradition of love poetry, Neo-stoic moral poetry, and the burlesque. Emphasis is placed on the works of Garcilaso, Fray Luis de León, Góngora, Lope de Vega, and Quevedo."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 461	Theater of the Golden Age	"This seminar studies the techniques and themes of the comedia as exemplified primarily in the works of Lope de Vega, Calderón de la Barca, and Tirso de Molina."	RMLL	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 462	Cervantes' Don Quijote	"A contextualized, in-depth reading of Cervantes' masterpiece."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 467	Latin American Romanticism	"Examines the rise of Romantic modes of expression in 19th-century Latin American letters. Works are studied in the context of the continent’s struggle for political and cultural independence, anti-slavery sentiment, political dissent and the experience of exile, and the project of nation building."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 468	Vision/Revision: Span Conquest	"Combines historical and literary approaches to examine early representations and interpretations of the Spanish discovery and conquest of the Caribbean and Mexico. The first half of the course compares texts produced by indigenous and Spanish actors during the Conquest period. The analysis of letters, chronicles, treatises, codices and other documents offers insight on the diverse Spanish and Native understandings of the events and ways of portraying them, and on the fierce legal and moral debates that the Conquest engendered among Spaniards. The second half of the course focuses on retrospective representations of the Conquest during the established colonial regime. The analysis of plays, poetry, works of art, and other texts of the 16th and 17th centuries reveals how the Conquest and its aftermath were reimagined by Spanish and Creole subjects, enabling them to articulate new forms of power, authority and hybrid identity."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 470	Subject and the City: Imagined and Real	"What do literary subjects and contemporary cities have in common? Students explore the connections between the two of them, placing special emphasis on the role that imagination plays in the construction of space. Through the analysis of novels, short stories, diaries and hybrid texts, students question the notion of authorship, problematizing the relationship between fictional characters, authors and readers with urban landscapes and spatial theories. A close analysis of literary representations of cities such as Madrid, Barcelona and New York, as well as the subjects who inhabit them, leads students to examine the fine line that separates the real from the fictional realm."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 473	Women and Censorship in Contemporary Spanish Novels	"In post-Civil War Spain, the prolonged tenure of Franco led to almost 40 years of strict censorship on the part of the government. The death of Franco in 1975 brought a cultural regeneration to the country, which was renowned for its literary innovation and fresh relationship to a new sociocultural context, especially for female writers and female representation. This course analyzes themes of oppression and social injustice from a gender perspective in the literary works of post-war novelists, as well as the novelistic representations of women undergone by Spain during the transition to democracy."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 474	Short Fiction in Contemporary Spain	"In 20th and 21st century Spain, short fiction has grown and evolved in numerous exciting directions. This course focuses on several of these new developments, which include the emergence of micro-fiction, the increasingly prominent place of female writers, and the blurring of the boundaries between fiction and reality through hybrid pieces that stand between stories and opinion columns."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 475	Spanish as a Global Language	"Explores the historical, social, and cultural elements represented in the dialectical diversity of the Spanish language. Some of the issues studied are the development of Spanish as the national language of Spain; the contemporary status of regional languages and dialects within Spain; the spread of Spanish in the Americas, Africa, and Asia through conquest and colonization; language policies toward indigenous languages in Latin America; and the future of the role of Spanish as a minority language in the United States. Emphasis is put on the role of language in cultural and social identity as well as in political power and conflict. Taught in Spanish."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 476	Linguistic History of Spain	"This seminar provides advanced-level language students with the understanding of the evolution of the Spanish language. It focuses on the external history (i.e., cultural, social, historical, and political factors that contributed to the evolution of Spanish from Latin to early romance, and then to the modern language), as well as the internal linguistic changes (i.e., changes in sounds, word formation, sentence structure, and vocabulary). These external and internal developments are considered within the context of linguistic diversity of pre-modern Iberia. Special attention is paid to historical explanations of ""irregularities"" found in modern Spanish. Therefore, the course is of interest to students who wish to improve their understanding of the idiosyncrasies of the Spanish language. The class also linguistically analyzes a selection from pre-modern texts. This analysis is of particular interest to students who plan to take courses in medieval, Golden Age, and colonial Spanish literature. The course does not presuppose knowledge of linguistics or languages other than Spanish. Taught in Spanish."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 477	Women Writing in Latin America	"An in-depth study of the relationship between gender and genre in literary texts written by women in contemporary Latin America and the Hispanic Caribbean, the course addresses questions of authorship within the development of Latin American women's literary traditions, as well as the relationship between patriarchal societies and women's literary discourses."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 478	Literature of the Caribbean	"A close study of the Hispanic literature of the island nations of the Caribbean, with particular attention to ethnic and cultural diversity. Representative authors in the various genres are studied within the general framework of their social and literary contexts. Emphasis is placed on contemporary writers."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 481	MajSpanAuth:Sci-Fi in Spanish	[Major Hispanic Authors: Sci-Fi in Spanish Narrative and Film] Focuses on the beginning and evolution of Science Fiction in Spain as an independent category inside the fictional narrative. Spanish Sci-Fi starts in the early 19th century and becomes a contemporary self-aware class of fiction which crystalized in 1970 around the Domingo Santo’s magazine Nueva Dimensión (1968-1983). Students examine pioneering Spanish fictional texts produced in Spain between the 19th and early 20th century and analyzes some of the most significant contemporary Spanish films related to the science fiction theme.	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 482	Major Spanish Authors: Inclusion and Exclusion in Central American Literatures	"When studying the work of Guatemalan poet Isabel de Los Ángeles Ruano (1945), it is nearly unavoidable to encounter references to how she “began to suffer mental health disorders” and “started dressing as a man.” Moving away from such forms of pathologizing literary critiques, students identify and celebrate the diverse identities which have contributed to Central American Literatures since its beginnings. In addition, students analyze the ways in which the ongoing construction of national identities and processes of literary canonization have actively excluded certain groups from the literary spheres while also incentivated the participation of others. Readings include texts collected from the oral traditions of communities such as the Bribris from Costa Rica and the Gunas from Panama, and authors such as Rigoberta Menchú (Guatemala), Carmen Andira Watson Díaz (Nicaragua), and Carmen Naranjo (Costa Rica). By the end of the semester, students are able to engage critically with the interplay between the region’s history, literature and literary critique vis-à-vis categories such as gender, class, sexuality, race, and ethnicity, among others."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 483	"Spanish American Modernismo: Spleen, Femme Fatales, Artificial Paradises"	"Analyzes literary works from the Spanish American Modernista period (1880-1910). The critical analysis of poems, chronicles, short stories and novels will be situated within the broader context of modernity, and within relevant social, cultural and political contexts in Latin America during the transition from the 19th to the 20th century."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 485	Latin American Novels Before the Boom (1910-1950)	"Undertakes an in-depth study of selected novels written before the Latin American Boom of the 1960s. These highly experimental texts, covering a wide range of geographical regions, will be situated within relevant cultural and socio-political contexts, which include topics related—but not limited to—technology and mass media, urbanization and public spaces, working-class movements, and critiques of Hollywood’s culture industry."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 486	Latin American Dictatorship Theater	"Offers students a close study of theater, performance, history, and cultural politics during the dictatorships in Latin America from the 1950s. Special emphasis is given to the military regimes in Argentina (1976-83), Chile (1973-90), Uruguay (1973-85), Paraguay (1954-1989), and the Dominican Republic (1930-1961)."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 487	Postdictatorial Transatlantic Theater	"A close study of theater, performance, and cultural politics through memory and trauma from 1990 to 2010 in the Southern Cone and Spain. The dictatorships in Argentina (1976-83), Chile (1973-90), and Uruguay (1973-85) led to political persecution, censorship, and exile. Numerous dramatists and theater groups found refuge in Spain, where literary and cultural production continued as an act of protest against the military regimes. This political engagement remained once the democracy was restored and played a significant role in the advancement of social justice in the following decades of the post-dictatorship context."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 488	Latin American Women Dramatists	"Offers a close study of Latin American women who have worked in and written for the theater since the 1950s. Through the analysis of plays and performing arts, students observe and reflect on how women dramatists redefine the theatrical space to resist, challenge, and dismantle masculine structures of power and political repression, including race and gender-based violence. Students critically respond to these topics through an in-depth study of plays that have been influenced by theoretical/conceptual approaches derived from influential theatrical movements such as the theater of the absurd, as well as experimental and postmodernist theater. This is a practice-based seminar that seeks to engage students in performance practices such as stage readings or short plays adaptations."	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 490	Honors	Students pursuing honors in Spanish enroll in this course.	RMLL	3			Human Thought and Expression	
SPAN 591	Intermed Spanish: Lang & Lit		RMLL	3				
THEA 220	Drama and the Greeks!	"Explores the dramatic challenge of producing a Greek tragedy. Students focus on a Greek play of global impact, one that is performed all over the world today in a variety of different cultural and social contexts. Students begin with an introductory segment that explores what is distinctive about Greek tragedy and has made it a central part of an increasingly complex theatrical canon. The course concludes with students working in groups to experiment with and stage their own interpretations of scenes from the play."	THEA	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 220L	Drama and the Greeks! Lab	Required corequisite to THEA 220.	THEA	0			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 240	Intro to Hip Hop Dance	"An introduction to the fundamental movement techniques and concepts of hip hop dance. Work will focus on the mechanics of rhythm, popping, waving, and choreography. It will include attending live dance concerts, written assignments, readings, and choreography projects. In addition to physical practice, hip hop will be studied as an embodied cultural form with particular attention given to histories and issues of race, gender, and class."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 246	Intro to Performance Studies	"What is performance? The verb ""to perform"" can be variously defined as ""to carry out an action,"" ""to discharge a duty,"" ""to accomplish a task,"" and ""to present to an audience."" Interdisciplinary in nature, students explores performance in the context of the performing and media arts, as well as in the context of ritual, politics, and everyday life. Emphasizes the relationship between performance and race, gender, sexuality, and other vectors of identity: how are various types of difference enacted, articulated, and represented through performative acts?"	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 250	Stagecraft	"A survey course that is designed to familiarize students with the areas of theater technology required in mounting a theatrical production, and to give an understanding of how the various areas of stage technology work together to achieve a cohesive result. At the end of the course students are prepared for further production work in theater as evidenced by the application of basic tools and materials necessary for construction; ornamentation; installation and painting of theatrical scenery; costume construction; stage lighting; and stage and production management. Course requirements include 24 lab hours, undertaken weekly, and covering safety, equipment, materials, and procedures. Open to all students."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 252	Scenic Design	"In this hands-on introductory class, students learn and put into practice, the steps of the creative process necessary to articulate their theatrical scenic design vision. Through several theoretical production projects, students examine the intersection of storytelling, visual research, artistic impulse, and script analysis that is the design concept’s point of origin. Consideration of the practical concerns of the scenic designer’s role as collaborator inform and further develop students’ individual design work. Prior design or drawing experience is not necessary to participate fully in this class."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 253	Costume Design	"In this hands-on introductory class, students learn and put into practice the steps of the creative process necessary to articulate their theatrical costume design vision. Through several theoretical production projects, students examine the intersection of storytelling, visual research, artistic impulse, and script analysis that is the design concept’s point of origin. Consideration of the practical concerns of the costume designer’s role as collaborator inform and further develop students’ individual design work. Prior design or drawing experience is not necessary to participate fully in this class."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 254	Acting I	"An introduction to acting as art, discipline and craft. Provides a practical and theoretical introduction to the basic skills of acting. Consists of individual and ensemble exercises to develop physical awareness, concentration, and imagination. Aimed at enhancing self-confidence, expressiveness, and creativity. Acting teaches poise and presence, vocal and physical coordination. Through corporeal exercises, improvisations, play analysis, and scene work students acquire a working vocabulary in the fundamentals of acting. Culminates with in-class performance work. No prior acting experience is required."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 257	Workshop in Children's Theater	"An introduction to performance through the creation of a play for young audiences. In this intensive workshop students explore all aspects of theater-making, familiarizing them with the building blocks of theater production. The course culminates in public performance and involves a service-learning component, which may include community-based projects and touring."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 259	"Performance I: We Are Pussy Riot, or Everything is PR"	"Credit for performance in a University Theater production. May be repeated up to three times for credit. The University Theater production is an opportunity offered to students to be involved in a production directed either by a Hudson faculty member or by an artist in residence. The production is cast through an audition process, which usually occurs at the beginning of each semester. Students may also receive credit through working on the production in a substantial technical or production related role."	THEA	2				
THEA 260	"Africa, Aesthetics & Appropiat"	"Explores traditional African fashion and clothing throughout the centuries, and its application in film, theater and contemporary fashion. The course is designed as an introduction to the artistic research process focusing specifically on how to use visual research to create costume design."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 266	Introduction to Drama	A survey of theater history and dramatic literature from ancient Athens through the early 19th century. Plays include not only classics of Western drama but also exemplary theater texts from around the world.	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	Students intending to major/minor in theater usually take either THEA 266 or THEA 267 by the end of sophomore year.
THEA 267	Modern Drama	"A survey of the new theatrical styles to emerge around the world in the 19th and 20th centuries. Course readings closely consider the relationship between a play’s literary form and its realization in performance, as well as theater’s response to the emergence of film, television, and new media."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	Students intending to major/minor in theater usually take either THEA 266 or THEA 267 by the end of sophomore year.
THEA 270	Introduction to Dance Studies	"Students are introduced to various approaches to studying dance. Students surveys diverse dance practices according to the function dance serves across temporal and geographic locations. By studying dance in wide-ranging contexts, students engage in conversations about race, gender, sexuality, class, and nationality. Students gain an understanding of the sociohistorical and cultural contexts in which dance practices are embedded, thereby becoming better equipped to recognize and unravel assumptions and hierarchies that have come to frame dancing bodies in predominant discourses. From consolidating and showcasing national identities for newly independent nations to providing a safe space for queer people outside the reach of hostile environments, dance has served a variety of critical functions in the lives of individuals and communities across time and space. Dance studies illuminates broad cultural, social, and political phenomena through the lens of dance and movement. As a growing field in the humanities, dance studies destabilizes the primacy of text in its insistence on body-based knowledge production."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 271	Introduction to Contemporary Dance	"Introduces students to a range of approaches to contemporary dance practice and theory. Through exploration of contemporary dance fundamentals, students gain a fuller understanding of their moving bodies and improve their bodily awareness, fluidity, and confidence. While this is primarily a practice-based course, students also study contemporary dance as a global phenomenon alongside critical race theories. Engaging with texts, video recordings, and a live performance, students broaden their awareness of the wide range of contemporary choreography on global stages and familiarize themselves with debates in the field of dance studies."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 273	Contemp African Amer Drama	"A study of the dramatization of African American experiences and perspectives, examined through close readings, viewings, and informed discussion of works by current contemporary black American playwrights, scholars, and drama critics."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 276	Playwriting I	"Introduces students to the principles, practices, and processes of playwriting—writing for live performance ""upon the stage."" In order to develop a working understanding of the elements and devices of playwriting, students engage in regular writing exercises, assignments, and script analysis. Students draft and revise short pieces of dramatic, theatrical writing, including 10-minute plays."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 321	Shakespeare	"Selected comedies, tragedies, and histories of Shakespeare, considered from a variety of critical, theatrical, historical, and textual perspectives, depending on the individual instructor's interests. Students may take both 321 and 322, although only one of these courses may be counted towards a Theater major or minor."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 322	Shakespeare	"Selected comedies, tragedies, and histories of Shakespeare, considered from a variety of critical, theatrical, historical, and textual perspectives, depending on the individual instructor's interests. Students may take both 321 and 322, although only one of these courses may be counted towards a Theater major or minor."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 341E	Performing & Media Arts Ext St	"A three-week extended study course for students who have taken Global Theater (THEA/ENGL 349) or Music, Film and Media (FMST 340). The extended study offers students an immersive experience in Hong Kong's vibrant performing and media arts scene. It includes visits to live performances, film screenings, museums, and galleries, as well as lectures and walking tours with Hong Kong-based scholars on the city's history, arts, and culture."	THEA	2	FMST 340 or (THEA 349 or ENGL 349)			
THEA 347	Research Sem in Dramatic Wrtg	"A seminar on research for creative writers, designed to open bold paths toward thinking about, understanding, discussing, and using research to enrich the meaning, complexity, relevance, and theatricality of creative dramatic writing. Theatre staff from the areas of writing, directing, and design, and other guest presenters will engage students in discussion, readings, and viewings."	THEA	3	THEA 356 or THEA 358 or ENGL 217 or ENGL 374 or ENGL 377 or ENGL 378 or ENGL 379 or ENGL 477		Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 349	Global Theater	"An exploration of Asian, African, intercultural, and postcolonial performance traditions, spanning theater, dance, ritual, and everyday life. Course materials include both classic and contemporary play texts along with selected readings in history, anthropology, and performance studies."	THEA	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 350	Theater Practicum: Devised Theater Workshop	"Students work together to create and perform one or more original works of theater. Rather than starting from a play text, students are given performance assignments in which themes, stories, characters and other source materials serve as launchpads for the process of collective creation. Playwriting and directing duties are shared among the ensemble, and artistic decisions are made collaboratively."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 353	"Theater, Play, and Improvisation"	"Designed to cultivate the actor’s creativity, spontaneity, and collaborative skills through theater, play, and improvisation. Students strive to locate the “quality of play,” which, at its essence, is a deep sense of far reaching curiosity. Narrative and corporeal improvisation are explored with a focus on the relationship between the actor’s body and imagination."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 354	Directing I	"An introduction to the art and craft of directing. Theoretical information is coupled with concerted exploratory work. The aim is to create common experience in acquiring the fundamentals of the discipline, identify and cultivate individual creative potential, develop leadership skills and artistic responsibility."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 355	Acting II	"A technique and scene study class designed to be an exploration of plays with heightened language and/or style, e.g., the Greeks, Shakespeare, Moliere, or other verse drama."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 356	Playwriting	"General principles of playwriting. The goal of the course is the creation of a finished work: a one-act play, one act of a longer play, or a complete play. Writing for the theater represents emotional and artistic commitment and intellectual pursuit. As part of the learning process, students tackle the artistic and pragmatic challenges of building methodically from the seeds of inspiration to the crafting of the well-written play. Text analysis investigates classic and modern plays. The class is a first-hand initiation into the vocabulary and technique of collaboration for the development of original material."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 358	Narrative Screenwriting	"A workshop approach to the craft of writing for the camera. Students read and analyze screenplays, view and discuss short films, and engage in creative writing exercises in order to understand the elements of visual storytelling and the screenwriter's process and craft. A complete, short, narrative screenplay is the final project."	THEA	3	THEA 276 or THEA 356 or ENGL 356		Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 359	Performance II: Novel to the Stage	"A collaborative, advanced performance-based course focusing on the rehearsal of a work for public performance with a faculty or guest director. The course focuses on devising, a process that enables a group to be creatively involved in a work that both emerges and is generated by the group working collectively."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 363	Narrative Improv &Storytelling	"An advanced improvisation course building on the skills and techniques acquired in THEA 353. Students will develop and acquire new collaborative theatrical improvisational skills through the addition of long form improvisation, storytelling and public performance."	THEA	3	THEA 353		Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 363Z	Narrative Improv &Storytelling		THEA	3				
THEA 371	Contemporary Dance in Performance	"Immerses students in the choreographic process through the development of new works to be performed at the theater department’s Spring Dance Concert. Students study the craft of choreography, create and perform their own choreography, and perform in faculty and guest artist works. Aims to develop high-quality works with strong conceptual and formal structures, performed by corporeally intelligent dancers. Students participate in weekly rehearsals outside of class and extensive tech/dress rehearsals leading up to performances."	THEA	3	THEA 271		Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 376	Playwriting II	"Building on playwriting skills and techniques introduced and practiced in THEA 276: Playwriting, students will study and practice the art and craft of writing and revising the one-act play (45-60 minutes in length). The course will be run as a workshop and is intended for students with playwriting experience."	THEA	3	THEA 356 or ENGL 356 or THEA 276		Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 454	Directing II	"The course in the art and craft of theatre directing is a continuation of THEA 354, focusing on expanding students’ directorial experience and expertise. Through reading, writing, exercises and practical assignments students develop the ability to analyze and interpret dramatic text, communicate and implement a directorial vision. Students perform technical and artistic requirements toward the completion of a theatre production."	THEA	3	THEA 354 or ENGL 354		Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 495	Senior Seminar in Theater	"Brings together all senior theater majors and minors in a capstone seminar experience, incorporating elements of both theory and practice."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 496	Special Studies for Honors Candidates in Theater	"Creation and presentation of a significant work of playwriting, directing, design, and/or theater or dance performance. With permission of the chair of the theater department, theater majors who wish to pursue an honors project in the spring semester of their senior year may enroll in this course. Honors projects must be proposed in the fall semester of senior year. The project may also take the form of a long-form critical, historical, or theoretical essay."	THEA	3			Human Thought and Expression	
THEA 591	"Theater, Play, & Improvisation"		THEA	3				
THEA 592	Performance I:Pussy Riot/PR		THEA	2				
UNST 106E	In the Footsteps of Galileo (Extended Study)	"An extended study course that follows a semester-long exploration of the development of modern scientific inquiry and knowledge, the conflict between science and religion, and the Galileo Affair in Saving the Appearances: Galileo, the Church, and the Scientific Endeavor and of Italian language and culture in Elementary Italian. The extended study course synthesizes a historical narrative that entangles the evolution of Catholic Church doctrine, the foundations of the epistemology of modern science, and Italian firebrand whose work left a lasting imprint on both endeavors and the language and the culture of the region he inhabited."		2	ITAL 121 and CORE 106S			
UNST 130	Scholarship: Independent Research Design and Development	"Scholarship takes many different forms, depending on the disciplinary field, the individual conducting the scholarship, and the place in which the scholarship occurs. Students in the scholar community are asked to explore what it means to be a scholar, examine scholarship from a variety of disciplines, and begin the process of developing their own independent project. As a part of the course, students begin the process of writing their own project proposal."		1				
UNST 350	Interdis Methods Seminar	"[Note from instructor:] In fall 2018, students will use the highly interactive, project-based design thinking method to understand and examine the role of core curricula in university education. Students explore the goals and structures of core and general education curricula at a variety of institutions, and ponder the kinds of knowledge and skills that college graduates need to be successful, engaged citizens of the planet. Contact Prof. Harpp (kharpp@Hudson.edu) with any questions about the focus for fall 2018. Course description: A methods seminar designed to prepare students to complete interdisciplinary research. Students will become familiar with how one designs and conducts research in the humanities and social sciences, learning different research methods that can be applied in multiple areas of inquiry. Beyond hands on experience in research design and methods, students will gain familiarity with key readings within the specific interdisciplinary program(s) with which the instructor is associated."		3				Students in humanities and social sciences who are preparing to conduct independent interdisciplinary research.
UNST 410	"Seminar: Area, Regional, and Global Study"	"The University Studies research seminar in area, regional, and global studies aims to provide an interdisciplinary senior capstone experience for majors in the Africana and Latin American Studies, Asian Studies, and Middle East and Islamic Studies. Based on the style of a graduate-level seminar, this course offers students the opportunity to explore and understand a trans-regional topic selected by the instructor. The seminar also provides a senior thesis workshop that helps guide the students through the process of developing a significant work of undergraduate scholarship."		3				
WMST 202	Women's Lives: An Introduction to Women's Studies	"This survey course examines the roots of and topics within the feminist project and explores how gender is shaped and mutually constituted by bodies, systems and ideologies. Students explore gender through a variety of frameworks, and in tandem with race, ethnicity, class, religion, sexuality, and other markers of identity. By enrolling in WMST 202, students agree to engage in an interdisciplinary and transnational journey that investigates gender as ever-evolving, cultural, sociohistorical, and differentially read and experienced in varying contexts. Students develop the language and analytical tools to speak and think critically about oppression, patriarchy, and social change, to unlearn common assumptions about the world and people around us."	EDUC	3		Global Engagements	"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
WMST 205	Queer Latina Visualities	"An introduction to queer Latina art as a field of interdisciplinary feminist inquiry, with a focus on art by Chicana, Xicana, Indigenous, Central American, Puerto Rican, Dominican, and Cuban artists. This course examines the synergetic relation between queer Latina feminist art, theory, and resistance. Students will learn how queer Latina visualities are shaped by historical, social, and political forces - like colonialism, racism, and globalization - and how queer Latina artists, in turn, act upon and shape the social world. Students investigate queer Chicana/Latina feminist texts, asking how artists challenge existing power dynamics, embody decolonial knowledge."	EDUC	3				
WMST 217	Corridors of Black Girlhood	"An introduction to the emergent field of Black Girlhood Studies. An interdisciplinary journey, it engages theories, methods, and analytical approaches that recognize the power and potential of Black girlhood. Through interpretive and pragmatic inquiry of Black girls’ lives, students will develop and enact an intersectional approach to interrogate the ways power, systems of oppression, and culture mediate girlhood. To expose discrepancies in popularized narratives of Black girls and women in the United States, the course is organized around the tenet of celebration and other foundational concepts and scholars within the field. Drawing on theories and concepts derived from Black feminist thought, budding scholars will approach Black girlhood as a political category of identity and symbol of agency. Working within and beyond hip-hop feminist and womanist frameworks, learning will involve critical thinking and embodiment of theories and practices as produced by Black girls, artists, and scholars. With attention to knowledge and creativity engendered amidst legacies of anti-Black racism and racialized femininity, Corridors of Black Girlhood reveals the contributions of Black girls, girlhood, and Black feminist thought to the expansion of theory, praxis, and power analyses."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
WMST 260	Intersectionality in Theory and Practice	"Traces an intellectual genealogy of intersectionality’s emergence as one the most significant theories coming out of feminist scholarship. In our present, intersectionality has become axiomatic insofar as multiple discourses both inside and outside of academia demand that all feminism be intersectional. Yet the history of intersectionality’s emergence from black women’s lived experience is often rendered opaque. Intersectionality as a feminist theory is one response to the often-forgotten Sojourner Truth question and demand “Ain’t I a woman?” that causes problems for feminist’s attempts to reconcile questions of difference and exclusion in feminist scholarship and activism. Hence, students will explore the historical conditions that produce intersectionality by interrogating the very question of black women’s relationship to the category of woman. And, more broadly, students will discuss the various ways feminist respond to questions of difference, inclusion, and exclusion in feminist social and political worlds."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
WMST 279	Black Feminist Thinkers	"An interdisciplinary journey into historical and emergent intellectual contributions engendered from navigating, refusing, and subverting systemic gendered oppression. As an homage to the distinct and layered legacy of Black feminist thought, students will learn concepts (i.e., interlocking systems of oppression, misogynoir), methodological tools (i.e., outsider within, blended scripting), and practice/organizing orientations (i.e., interdependence, homegirling). With a focus on contributions from the late 20th and 21st century, students historicize contemporary conversations by tracing conceptual and pragmatic topics back to key historical developments of Black feminist thought. Black feminists have always sought to understand how Black sexualities have been used to maintain gender and racial hierarchies. Such scholarship is the foundation of Queer of Color Critique and Black queer and sexuality studies. At the end of the course, students will have explored and had discussions about counter-hegemonic concepts, practices, and theory at the heart of Black women’s embodiment, labor, and creativity."	EDUC	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WMST 301	Feminist Methodologies: Theory and Praxis	"Is there a distinct feminist method of conducting research? How do feminist and decolonial methodologies challenge - or complement - conventional research methodologies? This course provides a framework for thinking about methods and forms of knowledge production from a feminist decolonial perspective. The course examines how feminist scholars challenge dominant theories of knowledge through a lens that recognizes multiple, interrelated axes of inequality."	EDUC	3	WMST 202 or FSEM 145			
WMST 302	Special Topics: Women's Lives in Text and Context: June Jordan	"Offers an advanced level study of a specific and narrowed field within the interdiscipline of feminist studies. Students focus on topics that reflect on the breadth of women's and gender studies at Hudson. Faculty teach in the area of their scholarly expertise on a rotating basis. Focus may be on particular identities, practices, histories, or theoretical frameworks, among other things provided they address the lives of women in text analysis."	EDUC	3				
WMST 312	"Gender, Race and Punishment: Toward an Inclusive History of the American Carceral State"	"An interdisciplinary course that explores the complex history of the mass incarceration of African American girls and women within the U.S. penal system. Students will investigate the complexities of the U.S. carceral state while unearthing the harsh realities that Black girls and women endured as they faced a system that criminalized their race, gender, and social status. Students will further investigate the historical nature of African American girls and women’s lived experiences, both within and right outside of a criminal justice system that, in many ways, has worked to criminalized their very being. This course is meant to illustrate that African American girls and women have not had one singular experience within the criminal justice system while illustrating that their experiences differed over time and across lines of age, class, regional, organizational, and sexual orientation. Students will consider multiple issues that African American girls and women have faced while confined, both physical and mentally, by the United States penal system including their struggle for freedom, the exploitation of their labor, physical and mental abuse within the penal system, their personal practices of self-salvation, family life and love relationships, and their ongoing efforts to not only denounce the prison industrial complex while pushing for the abolition of carceral state."	EDUC	3			"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
WMST 339	Critical and Feminist Disability Studies	"Students learn about (dis)ability as a gendered, racialized, and classed category of difference. Students discuss how dominant cultural, scientific, and educational understandings of the body/mind construct the boundaries of normalcy and determine the material conditions of our lives. Students look at how different aspects of a person’s identity – their ability, their gender, their race, their sexuality, their class – intersect to position them as citizens or non-citizens, members or threats to the future of the family and the nation. Students are introduced to the theoretical, analytical, and methodological tools of feminist disability studies, and the emerging field of DisCrit (Disability studies and Critical Race Theory). Using these theoretical and analytic tools, students look to the ways that activists, artists, and scholars have re-imagined the disabled body/mind as a complex identity."	EDUC	3	EDUC 101 or FSEM 182 or WMST 202		"Social Relations,Inst.& Agents"	
WMST 490	Women's Studies Senior Seminar	"The course is taught by the members of the women's studies faculty, and the content of the course takes a different shape depending on the instructor. The content of the course is interdisciplinary; the course is rooted in and utilizes feminist theory; and, where appropriate, students engage in some form of praxis in the process of understanding the connection between the classroom and the world in which we live. Major and minor students are required to take this course in the spring semester of their senior year."	EDUC	3				
WMST 499	Honors in Women's Studies	Students pursuing honors research enroll in this course.	EDUC	3				
WMST 591	Feminist Disability Studies		EDUC	3				
WRIT 102	Introduction to Rhetoric in the Liberal Arts Tradition	"Artes liberales--the liberal arts--those arts that are proper for a free citizen, according to Cicero. These arts numbered seven in the medieval curriculum, the language arts--grammar, logic, and rhetoric--constituting the first three or trivium. While the trivium has all but disappeared in today's college curriculum, increasingly scholars across the disciplines are discovering the integral role rhetoric plays in equipping citizens for effective participation in a democracy. Drawing upon the liberal arts tradition, the aim is to cultivate students' capacity for eloquence through inquiry. To foster this human impulse to inquire, students will engage in a number of inquiry projects that will ask them to reflect on their personal experiences, to analyze the forces that shaped those experiences, and to look critically at the way that social and cultural identity is formed. In conjunction with the three inquiry projects, students engage in an intense amount of work on rhetorical invention (the discovery of ideas for writing), composing a workable draft, reading and revising the draft, and rereading and editing it for fluency in grammar, punctuation, and style."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 103	Rhetoric and Writing	"Teaches the basic elements of college writing, strategies for reading and effective note-taking, the discovery and development of ideas, thesis development, organization and coherence, and editing skills."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 110	"Academic Persuasions: An Introduction to Rhetoric, Research, and the Academic Essay"	"By taking a rhetorical approach to academic writing, this course asks students to cultivate sustained and reasoned understandings of the relations between writer, audience, subject/text, and disciplinary contexts. Students engage in analytic essays and research projects within the discipline of rhetoric, developing facility with analytic habits of mind, discursive moves typical in academic writing, and the construction of clear, complex, and logical arguments about civic discourse. The course focuses on several essential elements of college writing and research: strategies for active analytic reading and effective note taking; compiling and critical reading of research sources; the discovery and development of a strong thesis supported by persuasive evidence; the skills of summary, definition, analysis, interpretation, and synthesis; organization and coherence; revision processes; and editing skills."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 203	Argumentation	"Students in this course learn critical techniques for argumentation by analyzing the arguments of other writers and applying these techniques to their own writing. Both academic and popular sources are analyzed for their use of evidence, the presence of logical appeals, and their use of rhetorical devices. Special attention is paid to problems arising from more complex critical analysis, such as appropriate ways to treat conflicting sources, detecting the biases in both primary and secondary source material, and examining the biases of the student's own arguments."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 210	The Rhetoric of Style	"In ancient Greece and Rome, teachers of rhetoric taught style (L. elocutio) as one of five essential canons, or considerations, for effective language use. Students study how the stylistic choices of non-fiction writers can affect readers’ reception and interpretation of texts. With the goal of improving the clarity and power of their own writing, students closely analyze published authors' diction, syntactical structures, punctuation, and figures of speech. Students also study conventions of mechanics and usage to make increasingly conscious, informed choices regarding varieties of English and levels of formality across genres. Writing assignments include essays, exercises, peer reviews, and a culminating final exam."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 215	Public Speaking	"Since the origins of western democracy, rhetoricians have taught the study and practice of public speaking as an essential art of public life and civic responsibility. This course fuses theory to praxis in introducing students to basic public speaking skills, including researching, organization, and writing effective oral presentations; developing skills of critical listening and audience analysis; surveying key examples of public address; and providing students the opportunity to work in different speech situations. Students develop poise and self-confidence in public speaking as they deepen their understanding of the evolving aesthetics of public discourse in the context of new media and global cultures. This course does not meet the writing requirement."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 225	Visual Rhetorics	"Approaches the study of rhetoric by focusing on the relationship between text and image. How does the combination of verbal and visual elements communicate different arguments to different audiences? How do verbal/visual texts reflect or even create cultural identities, norms, values, or practices? With the goal of becoming effective rhetorical critics, as well as incisive consumers and producers of visual culture, students both study and create a variety of visual texts."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 231	Ethos & the Personal Essay	"By exploring the boundary between private and public writing, students examine how personal reflection intersects with critical analysis to develop a disciplined expository essay. Drawing on examples from a variety of publications, it develops skills in autobiographical and biographical essay writing, journal writing, and expository writing, and then shows how these skills can enrich the expository essay without sacrificing its academic tone and structure."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 232	Digital Narrative Craft	"Students are immersed in the study of narrative craft, initially grounding them in the print essay tradition, but soon departing into multi-media narrative forms, including the audio essay, the photo essay, and the video essay. At its root, the word ""essay"" means ""inquiry"" from the Latin ex­agere, ""to weigh, try, prove, measure, adjust, ascertain, examine, inquire into."" A central premise for this course, then, is that every narrative - every story - inquires into experiences and ideas, and that writers compose not just what they know but in order to know. Thus, students are asked to mediate the subjective and objective positions of what Roland Barthes terms the ""writerly"" text in an effort to invite readers to see anew and to read and experience stories through aural and visual media."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 235	Research as Rhetorical Praxis	"Research, of course, requires special skills for finding information and applying methods for gathering and interpreting data. But research is also a deeply rhetorical practice, a way of approaching the world, and is inextricably bound up in the researcher's ways of making meaning. How does a researcher decide what counts as evidence, for example, and draw rational and compelling inferences from that data? How does the researcher then decide on the voice and formal conventions to use when communicating these inferences to the intended audience? Students explore these questions by engaging in critical analysis of research texts in order to articulate a rhetorical framework for research writing within a chosen field. Using this framework, students craft a research process and produce writing, critically reflecting on their own processes and writing at each step to understand the need to approach research as a rhetorical praxis."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 241	Politics of Public Memory	"Students understand and examine questions related to memory and public memory, their differences, and how the influences of public memory shape our contemporary understanding of society. Students engage with the processes through which memory becomes public and is shaped by the conditions of the everyday. Furthermore, students come to understand the intricate relationship between the past and present and how they influence each other. While students are introduced to foundational concepts related to public memory in rhetorical studies, they are simultaneously encouraged to think beyond the frameworks of memory as simply emerging from Greco-Roman-Western traditions. Memory is understood from a postcolonial/decolonial/anticolonial perspective to further comprehend the politics of public memory. Students learn how to consider memory as not simply evoked or codified in memorials, monuments, and museums. In order to do that, students visit a museum where they have an opportunity to engage with artifacts–more importantly with their historical and cultural context–and reflect on how memory is often relegated to artifacts that are collected and stored in a museum setting. Students think about the connections between public memory and trauma, archival practices, oral history, cultural heritage, and digital lives. Ultimately students collectively reflect on how meanings can be stabilized and destabilized through the circulation of public memory depending upon the social, cultural, and political conditions of the time."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 242	Stand and Speak: Feminist Rhetorics and Social Change	"As an introduction to rhetoric, rhetorical history and criticism, and feminist rhetorics, this course fore-grounds the study of how 19th-century women used both pen and voice with rhetorical precision to ""stand and speak"" to issues that marked their personal lives and their times. By studying women who composed and embodied what is now understood as the early years of the first wave of U.S. feminism, students access a genealogy of women rhetors who serve as exemplars - and cautions - for later waves and for their own contemporary visions of social change. By positioning the study of rhetoric as the study of language as it constitutes social relations, power, and knowledge, students become more acutely aware of and fluent in the composition, circulation, and criticism of private and public discourses, the verbal material through which they construct social worlds. The work for this course requires close reading and active discussion of course texts through a rhetorical lens and through the category of gender."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 248	Discourses of Race and Racism	"Until the late 17th century in Europe, nobody thought to classify or divide the people of the world by race. With no basis in biology, race is a purely social construct existing only in thought and language. Accordingly, this course will consider the many different social discourses of race and racism, how they have evolved in different ways around the globe and how they are employed today in multiple trans-national contexts. The course will adopt a multidisciplinary approach, examining a variety of texts from different intellectual perspectives."	WRIT	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 250	Kairos: The Art of Rhetoric from Ancient to Modern Times	"Rhetoric--the effective use of language to persuade a given audience--is as old as human speech itself. Yet attuned as they were to ""kairos,"" the opportune time of a fledgling democracy in Athens, the ancient Greeks were perhaps the first to codify rhetorical practice as an art. This is a course about time, about the art of rhetoric as a most effective medium of change at the right time. Students see this when rhetoric served as a vehicle for change in 5th-century Greece, when it equipped individuals to write and preach to effect change in the so-called dark ages, and when it gave women and former slaves the voice to change attitudes and institutions in the 19th and 20th centuries. Students survey the entire history of western rhetoric from the earliest treatises to the most recent theories. In addition to examining this history through a close reading of canonical texts, students come to know the rhetorical tradition through experience, by engaging in the very practices (e.g., medieval preaching and letter writing, and 18th-century exercises in elocution) associated with rhetoric in a particular historical period. The many rhetorical terms, concepts, principles, and practices covered in the course provide students the proper background for further study in the more specialized areas of rhetoric."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 260	Biblical Rhetoric	"Examines the various ways that writers and speakers draw on the Bible for rhetorical force. Many of the works that call on the Bible for inspiration are not of a religious nature at all, raising questions about the nature of biblical style. Readings range from the Venerable Bede and Queen Elizabeth I to Bob Marley and Douglas Rushkoff, in addition to source material from the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. No previous knowledge of the Bible is needed."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 263	Pirate Rhetoric	"Navigate the turbulent histories of maritime piracy by analyzing “the pirate” as a rhetorical construction. Beyond the parrots, peglegs and buried treasure, pirates challenged the boundaries of so-called civilization, earning them the name hostis humani generis, the enemy of all. Students will analyze historical pirate rhetorics in legal, economic, political, and artistic contexts, examining texts on their own terms and exploring how they intersect with contemporary questions of identity, justice, equity, and violence."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 270	The Rhetoric of Comics	"Focuses on the ways that comics - often defined as the interplay of words and images - convey specific messages, whether instructional, narrative, persuasive, or other. Close analyses draw on principles of visual rhetoric, comics scholarship, photography, and related disciplines. Readings cover the theory, history, terminology, and genres of graphic narratives."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 280	Rhetorical “Borderlands”: Introduction to Comparative Intercultural Rhetoric	"By taking a transnational comparative perspective, this course introduces students to several key questions in comparative and intercultural rhetoric, from the most basic question of “How does culture shape language, and how does language, in turn, shape culture?” to more complicated questions: How do cross-border and cross-cultural engagements constrain and influence rhetorical practices and interactions? How do cultural logics, values, and assumptions hierarchically govern different geo-political spaces? In what ways have individuals and groups both conformed to and resisted discursive structures of power and privilege? And finally, in what ways can comparative and intercultural study sharpen our own critical insights about and rhetorical agency within such dominant structures? This course will address these questions and others as students work to develop and strengthen skills in critical analysis, research, and reflective practices through the lens of transnational comparative intercultural rhetoric."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 300	Topics in Cultural Rhetorics	"Although rhetoric is typically thought of as originating in ancient Greece, persuasive writing and speaking practices are prevalent throughout a variety of cultural contexts and traditions. To address this gap in understanding, students take up recent scholarship in rhetorical studies that makes up the subfield of cultural rhetorics, an area that focuses on culturally specific persuasive practices, the resulting objects and meanings, and how power and marginalization shape the effect of both. Where is rhetorical practice inextricable from the influence of ethnicity, race, language, and/or geography, and how do these factors come into play when speaking across cultural boundaries? Students survey the evolution of cultural rhetorics and explore prominent conversations currently occurring in the field. Readings include scholarship from leading voices, such as Christina Cedillo, V. Jo Hsu, Malea Powell, and Jacqueline Royster. Writing Assignments include short reading responses, analyses of canonical rhetorical concepts, group projects, and/or research-based essays and presentations."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 303	The Rhetoric of Data Visualization & Infographics	Our world is increasingly visual; more and more of the information we consume and produce is presented in images. This course focuses on the visual presentation of numerical information — everything from box-and-whisker plots to flashy infographics — and specifically how such information can effectively persuade its readers. Emphasis will be on both analyzing and making visualizations; there will be no attention to data collection or analysis. Students can expect to improve their visual literacy skills. No facility with statistics or software packages is required.	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 325	The Narrative in New Media	"Students will explore the ways in which innovations in media have changed the shape of narrative and textuality. People often assume that new media is a 20th-century development, but this course will be a more historicized view; the printing press, after all, changed media more fundamentally than anything since. Starting with a foundation of media theory and narrative theory, the course will then work through the ages: printing; newspapers; color printing; radio; television; electronic fiction; fan fiction; hypertext; remix aesthetics; and videogames."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 342	Rhetoric in Black and White: Communication and Culture in Conflict	"In the nearly 400-year history of social relations between Blacks and Whites in America, rhetoric has often failed. Civil war, Jim Crow, Civil Rights, and Black Power were all actions or movements that ensued largely because words fell short of persuading persons of good will to submit to reasoned arguments. Arguably a pillar of American democracy (as in the freedom to speak and to dissent), why has rhetoric been so seemingly ineffective in securing mutual respect and understanding between America's Black and White citizens? This course seeks to answer this question by closely examining the styles of communication that historically have shaped the cultural identities and public personas of the two groups. From slave speech to the languages of protest in the 1960s to verbal expression in rap music and social media today, the course considers why communication or dialogue involving race is often doomed to fail."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 344	Rhetoric and Robots	"Robots are no longer from a sci-fi future but from the here and now: assisting us on our phones, composing articles for news sites and Wikipedia, patrolling our airspace, conducting surveillance, and, in some cases, attached to our bodies as prosthetics. Unsurprisingly, robots also abound in contemporary media reports, movies, and television shows as humans wrestle with ideas about living alongside automated machines. Students consider what it means to consider automation rhetorically by reading and viewing a wide variety of popular and theoretical texts from ancient to contemporary contexts. Potential topics include sharing workplaces and jobs with robots, historical depictions of automatons, and the cyborg body that integrates human and machine."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 345	"Crafting Bodies: Movement, Gender, and Performance"	"This class engages with recent developments in the field of rhetoric to consider how persuasion and meaning making are impacted by movement, gender, and performance. To this end, the course will introduce students to the dominant conversations, theories, and methods for studying embodiment within rhetoric and related fields. Students will apply these ideas to case studies from sports, dance, popular culture, politics, and law to better understand how dominant narratives constrain or enable certain types of bodily behavior. Through this theoretical and practical study, students will become critically aware of the intersections of bodies and their representations and how these intersections influence our capacity for engaged deliberation and social action."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 346	"Hip Hop: Race, Sex, and the Struggle in Urban America"	"Examines the ways in which language has reinforced racial and ethnic identities and divisions in post-Civil Rights America. Explores the conceptual origins of race, ethnicity, and other categories of difference, particularly those produced through legal, political, socioeconomic, and humanistic discourses. Recognizing that the United States is not just a multicultural society but a multilingual one, students investigate how urban American youth have ""talked back"" to power and seized the power to name. Focuses in particular on uses of the Hip Hop vernacular by urban Latin Americans, African Americans, Asian Americans, and white Americans to give voice to their reality and the urban struggle. Students also trace the causes and consequences of historical silences, as suggested by Martin Luther King's dictum: ""A riot is the language of the unheard."""	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 348	Discourses of Whiteness	"Claims that whiteness--white racial identity--is more about language than biology. Whiteness is a rhetorical construct that exists only in discourse, yet its concrete effects impact societies all over the globe. Drawing on texts from around the world, students trace the evolution of this construct from its inception up to the present day, examining the rhetorical strategies whereby whiteness is both hidden and revealed in a variety of genres: personal memoirs, philosophical essays, scientific investigations, political writings, legal documents, critical analyses, historical essays, and such mass media as television, film, newspapers, and magazines. By engaging in the rhetorical analysis of these texts, students examine how the discourses of whiteness continue to frame reality and mediate power relations. A required evening film series accompanying the class has students viewing, discussing, and analyzing feature films, documentary films, and television shows."	WRIT	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 348L	Required Film Screening	Required corequisite to WRIT 348.	WRIT	0				
WRIT 350	Rhetoric & Citizenship	"To engage students in both the analysis and production of public discourse through examining the rhetoric of citizenship. It is through the language and symbols of citizenship that individuals come to understand themselves as political subjectivities and engage with others as democratic agents. Students will examine how the meaning of citizenship is shaped and contested through public discourse. Students will analyze debates over citizenship, mainly in the context of immigration debates in the US and in other parts of the world."	WRIT	3		Global Engagements	Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 354	Dialogue/Deliberatn Dem Life	"Public communication is a vital part of democratic life. It is through the circulation and exchange of public speech that citizens shape the contours of public life, build community, and determine their core civic values. More importantly, it is through the work of democratic dialogue that citizens struggle with their inevitable differences and seek to find ways of working together despite those differences. The purpose of this class is to examine both the theory and practice of deliberative democracy, with the aim of better understanding how communities might use dialogue and deliberation to effectively engage across different perspectives. Students are asked to think critically about the possibilities and challenges of democratic dialogue. Students are also trained in facilitation techniques, with the major project for this class providing students an opportunity to facilitate an open forum on a campus-related issue."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 361	Composition History and Theory	"What counts as writing? Why do genres matter? What makes some writing better than others? What makes one an author? And, how does our thinking about writing change now that computer algorithms frequently produce writing for social media, newspapers, or customer service apps? All of these questions and more have been taken up throughout the history of composition studies. Students trace the history and major theories within composition studies invested in better understanding writing, literacy, and sociolinguistics. In doing so, students will study texts beginning with the 19th-century Current Traditionalist Movement, followed by expressivist and critical theory approaches of the 20th-century, and ending with the 21st-century theories of multimodal writing and decolonial composition methods. Students will be exposed to theories of voice, authorship, genre, literacy, and the social power of communicating effectively through writing."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 370	Surveillance Rhetorics	"The more we critically engage with each other on social media platforms, the more important it is for us to critically examine the algorithms that maintain these online spaces. In addition to collecting and processing our information, platform algorithms influence how we connect and communicate with other people and obtain the information necessary to form our sociopolitical views. Students will consider the rhetorical impacts of social media platform algorithms and the surveillance practices they enable. Students are asked to explore the theoretical and ethical aspects of algorithmic rhetorics and surveillance, rhetorically analyze legal documents, collect- and examine social media platform information, and write data-driven arguments."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 378	Discourses of Nature	"In a troubled world characterized by conditions of social injustice, extreme resource disparity, colonialism, disease, climate change, and regular mass extinction events, we are freshly called to think about concepts of nature, rhetoric, world, and human differently - that is, if we are to justly respond. Students will adopt an ecological perspective in order to trace the languages and logics of a discourse of ""Nature,"" a rhetorical construct whose distinguishments and appeals helped lead to our contemporary context. Through a distinctly rhetorical engagement with theories of ecology, geology, and posthumanism and by embracing embodied, arts-based, and performative rhetorical practices, students will strive to: challenge the assumptions which underpin a human-centered perspective; identify recurrent topoi in the theory and practice of ecological thought and materialist rhetorics; develop texts working toward ecological justice; and refine our critical thinking skills as rhetorical bodies with a responsibility to this planet."	WRIT	3			Human Thought and Expression	
WRIT 380	"Rhetoric, Disability & Tech"	"Since the days of ancient cultures, disabled folks have made strategic and innovative uses of technologies in their everyday lives. These uses are practical and at times life-sustaining, but often they are also innovative and cunning technological literacies. This course explores the close relationship between disability, technology, and effective persuasion in order to rethink our cultural understandings of disability, techno-social environments, and even basic concepts of communication. Together, we will consider critical accounts of disability alongside theories of technology and rhetoric. Through readings, discussions, and student research, we will develop scholarship that provides alternatives to able-bodied norms."	WRIT	3				
WRIT 591	Ethos & the Personal Essay		WRIT	3				
